Out in the Arizona suburbs, a young man named Herbert 'H.I.' McDunnough lives his life as a petty criminal with an apparent addiction to robbing convenience stores. He is constantly in and out of jail but is repeatedly paroled because he never uses live ammunition in his robberies. Each time he returns to prison, he is booked by young policewoman named Edwina 'Ed'. H.I. flirts with her during the booking process until one day when he comes upon her crying. She confesses she lost her fiancé (being a member of the lower class, she mis-pronounces it as 'fy-ance') who ran off with a cosmetology student. H.I. angrily retorts, saying that the man made a bitter mistake and his valiance creates a spark in Ed. An unlikely romance blossoms and H.I. proposes to Ed once he is a free man again. They begin a new life in a trailer home out in the Arizona desert.

H.I. gets a legitimate job working as welder and machinist in a factory while Ed continues her police work until they decide they want to have a child. However, Ed learns that she is infertile and their attempts to adopt are foiled by H.I.'s criminal history. Ed is devastated and H.I. feels helpless until a small ray of hope emerges: a story appears in the paper celebrating the birth of the 'Arizona Quints', quintuplet sons born to local furniture magnate Nathan Arizona and his wife Florence. Figuring that the Arizonas have "more than they can handle", Ed and H.I. resolve to take one of the babies as their own.

One evening, with Ed urging him on, H.I. takes a ladder and scales the Arizona house to the window of the nursery. Though the five energetic babies prove troublesome for H.I. to handle, he manages to keep four in their crib and takes whom he believes is Nathan Jr. Though Ed has some reservations about upsetting Nathan Jr.'s mother, she and H.I. are overjoyed to finally have a family. Upon taking a family picture, Ed makes H.I. swear that he will be a caring and supporting father. That night, H.I. suffers a nightmare about a demonic figure, a grizzly-looking hulk riding on a huge, blatting motorcycle that he fears he's brought upon himself as Florence discovers Nathan Jr. missing the next morning.

Nathan Sr. makes a press statement to local reporters about his son's abduction and offers a $10,000 reward to the person or persons who find his son. Mr. Arizona also enlists the local police to investigate his son's (Nathan Jr., he thinks) disappearance but the officers seem inept at conducting a proper inquiry in his own house.

Meanwhile, H.I.'s prison buddies, brothers Gale and Evelle Snoats, emerge screaming from the rain-soaked mud outside of prison, having just tunneled their way out. After cleaning themselves, and with much hair grease and stealing a nearby station wagon, they arrive at H.I.'s trailer for refuge. H.I. is excited to be reunited with his old buddies but Ed sees them as a bad influence and refuses to allow them to stay more than a day or two out of respect for H.I. The brothers are somewhat suspicious when they see the baby, leading a bumbling H.I. to struggle with a story to explain his spontaneous birth.

H.I. and Ed attempt to ease into 'normal' married life and invite H.I.'s supervisor, Glen, and his family over for a picnic. The outing becomes more than H.I. can bear; Glen's children, all of them adopted and disheveled looking, are rude and take pleasure in breaking things around the trailer apartment or scribbling on the walls while Glen's wife, Dot, bombards Ed with all the things, some excessive, she needs to do to keep Jr. healthy. On a walk around the trailer, Glen, already an annoyance with a penchant for horrible and tasteless jokes, reveals to H.I. that he and Dot are swingers and suggests a wife swap. Infuriated and stressed, H.I. punches Glen in the face. Glen takes off yelling and runs face first into a cactus.

That evening during a drive for some errands, Ed is somewhat upset with H.I. over the incident with Glen which resulted in Glen having a broken nose (H.I. doesn't mention Glen's spouse-swapping proposition to Ed.) H.I. leaves Ed and Jr. in the car while he enters a large convenience store... and proceeds to don a pair of pantyhose over his head before he takes a bag of diapers off the shelf and an unloaded gun out of his pocket. The porn-obsessed, geek store cashier, however, flips a silent alarm before Ed sees H.I. from outside. Enrage, she yells at him before driving off just as the cops arrive. H.I. flees the store and a hilarious chase throughout the neighborhood ensues as the trigger-happy geek store owner and a policeman chase H.I. Hearing gunshots, Ed resolves to drive back to fetch H.I. and picks him up, though a seed of doubt that H.I. could ever change his ways is planted in her mind. H.I. is chased through the neighborhood by the policeman, the gun-toting store owner, and a pack of dogs.

Ed manages to pick up H.I. as he makes his escape out of a local supermarket and losing his pursuers where despite the tense situation between them, he manages to pick up the stolen diapers from where he dropped them on the street. When they return home, Ed orders Gale and Evelle, who are still loafing around the trailer and watching TV cartoons, to leave by tomorrow, telling them plainly that they're a bad influence. After telling them he lost his job, Gale and Evelle offer a proposal: they want him to help them rob a bank when it's flush with cash while all the local farmers cash in their subsidy checks. H.I. refuses immediately but Gale tells him to think about how well his life with Ed is going and if he can provide for his new family.

The following morning, and while Ed is out, Glen arrives at the trailer and tells H.I. that he's fired and blackmails his cooperation by threatening to go to the police; dull, though he is, he deduced the baby's true identity as the missing Arizona child. Glen, however, is not interested in collecting the reward for Nathan Jr.'s return, but he and his wife want to claim the baby for themselves to raise. After Glen leaves, H.I. realizes that Gale and Evelle have overheard the whole conversion from within the trailer. When H.I. enters the house, he quickly finds himself in a pitched battle with Gale who eventually beats him down and, with his brother's help, ties him to a chair. The two leave with the baby to claim the reward money themselves. As they drive toward the bank's location, they both are gradually overcome by little Nathan Jr's infant charm. When they rob a convenience store, they accidentally leave left Nathan Jr. behind in his car seat outside in the parking lot. Screaming, they race back to the store and find the baby safe and vow they'll never leave him.

Ed returns to the trailer and she and H.I. immediately arm themselves and pursue the Snoats to rescue the baby. Clad in her police gear, Ed admits that it was irresponsible of her to take the baby in the first place but all that she cares about is getting him back. She doesn't care if she and H.I. even stay together, she just wants Nathan Jr. safe.

Meanwhile, frustrated by the poor functionality of the police, Nathan Sr. is approached in his office by an intimidating man named Leonard Smalls (Randall 'Tex' Cobb), a bounty hunter armed with a shotgun and a pair of baby booties (the same biker from H.I.'s nightmare). He offers to find the baby for more what Arizona is offering as a reward, but Nathan Sr. refuses after Smalls demands a high price of $50,000. When Nathan Sr. accuses Smalls of kidnapping his son himself and begins to call the police, Smalls leaves, intent on finding the baby anyway to sell on the black market.

Leonard Smalls follows up on a lead of a recent prison break and tracks Gale and Evelle to Ed and H.I.s trailer. There, he finds clues of Nathan Jr.s presence and follows the trail into town.

At the bank, Gale and Evelle are ready to go inside the bank but are unsure of what to do with Nathan Jr. Evelle argues that if they are killed in the attempt, Jr might not be found for hours. They burst into the bank carrying Jr in his car seat, telling everyone to get on the floor. Though their lack of coordination inspires some confusion from the bank patrons, the robbery goes successfully otherwise. However, in their haste, they leave Nathan Jr behind yet again.

As they speed back into town, a anti-theft canister that was placed in Gale and Evelle's money bag explodes, covering them in blue dye and disorienting them. H.I. and Ed catch up to them and demand to know where Nathan Jr. is. Gale and Evelle confess that they left Nathan Jr. behind and Ed and H.I. race into town, leaving Gale and Evelle behind on the side of the road, yelling that the baby belongs to them too.

As Ed and H.I. approach Jr in his car seat they see Smalls appear out of a burst of flame. Smalls snatches up the car seat and latches it to the front of his motorcycle. Ed manages to retrieve Nathan Jr. from his car seat while H.I. distracts Smalls, enduring a brutal beating in the process. However, just before Smalls can finish H.I. off by crushing him in a vicious bearhug, H.I. manages to pull a pin from a grenade on Smalls vest when Smalls throws him off. Smalls explodes, some of his paraphernalia landing in the road.

They decide to return Nathan Jr. to his real parents and sneak into the nursery where Nathan Sr. finds them. Thinking them a kind couple who have found Nathan Jr., he offers them the reward but Ed and H.I. want nothing of it and admit that they are leaving one another. As he watches them admire Nathan Jr., Nathan Sr. deduces that they are the ones who took the baby in the first place. However, he is sympathetic to their wishes to have a child of their own and advises them to stay together before giving up hope completely. He assures them that he won't call the police and allows them to leave.

That night, back at their trailer, as H.I. and Ed sleep, H.I. has another dream; he dreams that Gale and Evelle voluntarily return to prison by returning through the same tunnel they dug out of the prison from. H.I. imagines that "they weren't ready to come out into the world just yet". He dreams that Nathan Jr. grew up and received a football as a Christmas present one year from a loving couple who wish to remain anonymous and is watched by said couple as he grows up, becoming a football star in high school (Todd Michael Bogers). An elderly couple is seen living happily together as their children and grandchildren come to visit them for a holiday meal. In a final voice-over, H.I. surmises that, if it wasn't Ed and himself he was dreaming about and if that isn't wishful thinking, then it must be of a couple who come from a land not too far away.... maybe Utah.

The movie opens with a car towing a new tan Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera through a sub-freezing blizzard to a small inn in Fargo, North Dakota. It is 8:30 p.m. on a cold night in January 1987. When the driver goes inside, we see that it is Jerry Lundegaard, and he uses the false name 'Jerry Anderson' to check in. He then goes to the inn's bar/restaurant to have a meeting with two men.

Jerry has obviously never met them before. The short, bug-eyed, dark-haired, annoyed, talkative one, Carl Showalter, tells him that Shep Proudfoot, a mutual acquaintance of theirs who set up the meeting, had said Jerry would be there at 7:30 rather than 8:30. The other man, a tall, blond Swede named Gaear Grimsrud, sits silently and smokes. They discuss the tan Ciera as part of a payment to them from Jerry, plus $40,000. Apparently, Jerry has hired the men to kidnap his wife in order to get a ransom from his wife's father. Jerry is a fast talker and doesn't want to say much about why he needs the money, but he reveals that his father-in-law is wealthy and that he plans on asking for $80,000 and keeping the other half for himself. Carl and Gaear accept the deal.

The next day, Jerry returns to his home in Minneapolis, Minnesota where we see part of his impassive home life. Jerry awkwardly greets his laid-back, subservient wife Jean, but he becomes uncomfortable when he sees his father-in-law, Wade Gustafson, sitting on the couch watching a hockey game on TV, visiting that night for supper. They all eat dinner, and Jerry and Jean's young teenage son, Scotty, leaves early to go to McDonald's. Jerry and Wade start to argue about this; that Jerry seems to spoil Scotty and allows him to do whatever he wants, plus Jerry does not inflict much discipline on his son. To get out of the conversation, Jerry changes the subject by bringing up a deal he had apparently suggested earlier to Wade, in which he's asking for a loan of $750,000 to build a 40-acre parking lot in Wayzata. Wade tells Jerry that his associate, Stan Grossman, usually looks at those kinds of deals before he does. Jerry nervously urges him to accept it, saying he and his family are in desperate need of money soon. Wade, who clearly appears to have a condescending attitude toward Jerry, tells him that Jean and Scotty will never have to worry about money (Wade clearly omits Jerry's name).

Another day later, Carl and Gaear are driving the Cutlass Ciera towards Minneapolis. Gaear tells Carl he wants to stop at "pancakes house", and Carl complains that they just had pancakes for breakfast. Gaear looks at him and tells him coldly they will stop at pancakes house. Carl agrees, somewhat reluctantly, they will stop for the night in Brainerd where they will get pancakes, and "get laid."

Back in Minneapolis, Jerry is the executive sales manager at the car lot Wade owns, a job which fits Jerry's talkative, weaselly manner. He's arguing with a couple about the $500 "TruCoat" sealant on the couple's new $19,000 car, and now Jerry is clearly over-charging them for it when they had said they didn't want it. Jerry says he will talk to his manager about it, and leaves the room to have a conversation with another salesman about hockey tickets. He comes back and lies to the couple by stating that his manager has approved a $100 discount on the TruCoat, and the husband agrees but profanely accuses Jerry of being a liar.

The story goes back briefly to a motel room at the Blue Ox, a motel in Brainerd that evening. Gaear and Carl are having enthusiastic sex with two women on separate beds in the same room. They watch 'The Tonight Show' with Johnny Carson on the TV afterwords.

The next morning at the Lundegaards', Jean and Scotty are having an argument about his low grades in school. The phone rings, and it's Wade calling for Jerry. Wade tells him that Stan Grossman has looked at the parking lot deal and he says it's "pretty sweet." Jerry tries to restrain his excitement, as he apparently had thought Wade wouldn't want to go through with it. They schedule a meeting for 2:30 pm that afternoon.

Jerry is optimistic about the future meeting with Wade, and is now considering calling off the kidnap/ransom plot. He makes his way to the dealership's large service garage to seek out a burly Native American mechanic, named Shep Proudfoot. A man of few words, Shep is apparently the middleman who set up Jerry's earlier meeting with Carl and Gaear. Surprisingly, Shep does not know who Carl is. He tells Jerry he'll only vouch for Grimsrud, not Carl. Regardless, Jerry tells him that's fine, but was just wondering if there was an alternate phone number to reach Carl and Gaear. Shep casually tells Jerry that he can't help him anymore, for he has no other means to get in contact with Gaear or Carl. Jerry is visibly nervous.

In the next scene, Carl and Gaear are driving and the skyline of the Twin Cities is visible. Carl chats mindlessly to Gaear and asks him if he's ever been to the Twin Cities, to which Gaear responds with a short "nope." Carl goes on about how that's the most Gaear has said all day. He asks Gaear how much he'd like it if he stopped talking.

Meanwhile, Jerry is sitting in his office at the car dealership talking on the phone. On the other end is a man named Reilly Diefenbach from the banking loan company GMAC who tells Jerry that he can't read the serial numbers of a list of vehicles on a financing document Jerry sent by fax some time ago. Jerry is elusive, telling him there's no problem since the loans are in place already. The man tells him 'yes', and that Jerry got $320,000 last month from the insurance loans for the new set of cars sold, but there's an audit on the loan and that if Jerry cannot supply the serial numbers of the cars as proof of the sales to prove that the vehicles exist, GMAC will have to recall all of that money. Jerry clearly tries to get the man off the phone as quickly as he can while still being vague about the particulars. Jerry tells him that he'll fax him another copy. The man tells him a fax copy is no good, because he can't read the serial numbers of the cars from the fax he already has. Jerry tells him he'll send him another one as soon as possible and then hangs up.

(Note: It is highly implied at this point that Jerry is secretly embezzling money from the car dealership bank accounts either for personal use or to pay off more anonymous debts. So, in order to cover up his crime, he replaced the money he stole by sending fake sales documents to acquire a $320,000 insurance loan from GMAC for a new batch of cars that he sold... cars which apparently don't exist, thus in some part explains why Jerry needs $320,000 to pay back GMAC when they come to recall their loan.)

At the Lundegaards' house, at about the same time Jerry is on the phone, Jean sits alone watching a morning TV show. She hears a noise and looks up at the sliding-glass door in the back just as Carl comes up the steps to the back deck, wearing a ski mask and holding a crowbar. He peers through the window as if looking for someone, steps back, and smashes the glass door with the bar. Jean screams and tries to run for the front door, but Gaear suddenly barges in through the front door, also wearing a ski mask. He grabs her wrist and she bites his hand. She runs up the stairs as Carl enters. Gaear lifts up his mask, looks at the bite, and tells Carl he needs unguent. Jean takes a phone into the second floor bathroom and locks herself in, trying desperately to call 911. The cord is under the door. Carl and Gaear yank the phone out of her hands before she can finish dialing. The door frame starts to break as Carl uses the crowbar to get through. Sobbing hysterically, she frantically tries to pry the screen off the second-story window to escape before the men get in. The door busts open, and the two men stand there looking at an empty bathroom, the window open. Carl runs to go outside to look for her, and Gaear raids the medicine cabinet for some salve. As he is about to put it on his hand, he looks up into the mirror and sees the shower curtain drawn on the tub. He pauses for a moment and realizes where Jean is. Jean, hiding in the tub, begins thrashing and screaming and takes off, blindly hurtling through the bathroom and down the hall. She runs screaming, trying to throw off the curtain, and she trips and falls down the flight of stairs and lands hard at the bottom. Gaear calmly follows her down the stairs and nudges her body to see if she is alive.

At the 2:30 p.m. business meeting, Stan Grossman and Wade tell Jerry that the deal is looking good. They ask him what kind of finder's fee he is looking for. Jerry seems confused and tells Stan and Wade that they would be lending all the money to him to proceed with building the parking lot. They explain that while Jerry will get a finder's fee of around 10% of the $750,000, Wade and Stan will oversee the rest of the development of the parking lot with the rest of the money. Jerry (realizing that $75,000 is nowhere near what he needs to pay back his massive debit to GMAC), tries to convince them to give him all of the $750,000 so Jerry can invest it himself... with neither Wade nor Stan overseeing his work. Stan tells Jerry they thought his asking for $750,000 was merely an investment he brought to them, and states that they are not a bank. Jerry insists that Wade and Stan give him all of the 750 grand and he will pay them back the principal and interest when the deal starts paying, but Wade and Stan insist on running the deal themselves. Jerry desperately guarantees them their money back if they let Jerry run the deal and let him have all the money, but both Wade and Stan say they are not interested and that they would like to move on the deal independently. Jerry goes out to his car alone and vents his rage and frustration with the ice scraper on his frozen windshield.

Jerry walks into his house later that day. He surveys his empty house, where there are obvious signs of a struggle during the kidnapping. He practices the fake desperate and sad phone call he will make to her father.

Later that night, Carl and Gaear are driving with the sobbing Jean, now covered with a blanket in the back seat of the car. They pass a huge statue of Paul Bunyan and the welcome sign for Brainerd. Gaear, smoking and looking out the window as usual, is annoyed by Jean's whimpering and tells her to shut up or he'll throw her in the trunk.

"Geez, that's more than I've heard you say all week," Carl tells him. Gaear gives him a hard, cold stare and turns away. It is then that a Minnesota State Police cruiser behind them flips on its lights and pulls them over. Carl realizes they're being stopped because he failed to put temporary vehicle registration tags on the car, and he tells Gaear he'll take care of it. He tells Jean to keep quiet or they'll shoot her. Gaear stares at him expressionlessly. The trooper approaches Carl's window and asks for a driver's license and registration. Carl gives the trooper his driver's license, but does not have the car's vehicle registration or insurance. He then tries unsuccessfully to coolly bribe the trooper, who tells him to step out of the car. Nervously, Carl hesitates, and Jean makes a noise in the back seat. The trooper points his flashlight at Jean. Quickly, Gaear reaches across Carl, grabs the trooper's hair, slams his head onto the door, pulls a pistol from the glove box, and shoots him in the head, blowing his brains out. Carl sits stunned, the trooper's blood having splattered across his face, and an angry Gaear tells him to ditch the body.

As Carl lifts the dead trooper by the arms, a pair of headlights starts towards them down the highway. He freezes in the lights, holding the obviously dead man in his arms by the police car. The two people in the car stare as they pass. Gaear quickly climbs into the driver's seat and takes off after the other car. He is briefly puzzled when its tail lights vanish in the dark, but quickly spots the car turned over in the snow on the roadside. Gaear stops and jumps out of the car. The driver is limping and trying to run across the snowy field. Gaear fires once, striking the man in the back. He falls face-first and dies. Gaear then walks over to the upside down car and looks inside, where a young woman is lying awkwardly in her upside-down seat. He leans back, aims his pistol, and the screen cuts to black as he shoots her.

A little later, the phone rings at the home of a sleeping couple, Brainerd police chief Marge Gunderson and her husband Norm. As she gets out of bed we see she is very pregnant. Norm makes her some breakfast before she goes out to the scene of the shooting.

That morning, Marge arrives at the scene of the overturned car driven by the collateral shooting victims. Marge is observant and quick-working, and she determines from the size of the footprints that the shooter was a heavyset individual. She surmises the events we've already seen - the trooper pulled over a motorist for a traffic violation, said motorist shot him. The second car came driving past, and the shooter, realizing they'd seen him, chased them down and shot them.

Marge then looks at the trooper's unit, parked several hundred yards up the road and sees a set of smaller prints by the trooper's body, lying in the snow by the roadside. Here, Marge deduces that a second, smaller man was involved. From the fact that the trooper's car's lights were turned off, Marge deduces that the accomplice was warming up in the cruiser while the heavy person was chasing down the two witnesses. As Marge and the other officer, Lou, drive away, Lou notes that the trooper's notebook was lying on the floor of his car, which the killers apparently overlooked, and they find their first clue: the officer had partially filled out a ticket at 2:18 am for a tan Cutlass Ciera with a license plate number starting with DLR. Marge realizes that this is not the beginning of a license plate number, but an abbreviation of the word "dealer" which is an indication that the car was stopped because it had dealer plates that hadn't been changed yet.

At a restaurant in Minneapolis, Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit and discuss Jean's kidnapping. Jerry tells them that the kidnappers called him and expressly told him not to call the cops. Wade is angry and insists on calling the police. As a surprise to Jerry, Stan sides with Jerry and says they should not call the police or negotiate with the kidnappers and that they should give them the ransom. Jerry tells Wade the men asked for one million dollars (obviously planning to give Carl and Gaear their $40,000 and to keep the rest for himself to pay off his debits). Jerry also says he needs the money ready by tomorrow. Stan offers to stay with Jerry and wait for a phone call from the kidnappers, but Jerry tells him the men said they'd deal only with him. Stan asks Jerry if Scotty will be okay. It seems to suddenly dawn on Jerry that this will affect his son, and he seems visibly upset or at least surprised that he had never thought about his scheme affecting Scotty before.

At home, Jerry tells Scotty about the kidnapping, and the boy cries and asks if Jean will be okay. Jerry nods and doesn't offer much comfort. He tells the boy that if anyone calls for Jean, he should just say she is visiting relatives in Florida.

That afternoon, Carl and Gaear pull up to a cabin by a lake, and Gaear opens the back door to guide Jean inside. She is hooded and tied at the wrists. Jean squeals and tries to run away; Gaear reaches to catch her, but Carl stops him and watches her running blindly in the snow, laughing hysterically. She falls, and Carl laughs hysterically. Gaear, staring expressionlessly, goes to get her.

Downtown in Brainerd, Marge goes to the police station to eat lunch, and her husband Norm is waiting there for her with food from Arby's. As they eat, Lou pokes his head into Marge's office and tells her that the night before the shootings, two men checked into the Blue Ox Motel with a tan Ciera with dealer plates; apparently, "they had company."

Marge goes to a bar to interview the two women who Carl hired to have sex with him and Gaear in the motel. The two ditsy women, whom work as strippers at the bar during the evening hours, are not very helpful in describing the two men. The first one describes Carl, the "little fella," as funny-looking, and the other describes Gaear, the "big fella", as an older man who didn't talk much but smoked a lot. The women tell Marge that the men told them that they were headed to the Twin Cities.

In the cabin, Carl is banging the top of the staticky TV, cursing at it. Jean is tied to a chair, the hood covering her head and her cold breath steaming through the fabric. Gaear sits with the same emotionless expression, watching silently as Carl screams and bangs on the TV, trying to improve the reception.

Late at night at the Gundersons' house, they turn off the TV to go to sleep. The phone rings for Marge, and it's Mike Yanagita calling; apparently an old acquaintance of hers from high school, he tells her that he's in the Twin Cities and that he saw her on the news in the story about the triple homicide in Brainerd. Marge makes brief but polite conversation as the man chatters.

The next morning, Jerry is half-heartedly selling a car as he gets a phone call from Carl in his office. Carl tells him that he will be arriving tomorrow to pick up the ransom, but demands more money so he and Gaear can leave the country because of the shootings. He demands the entire ransom of $80,000, unaware that Jerry told Wade the ransom is $1 million. As soon as Carl hangs up, Jerry gets another phone call from the man at GMAC, telling him he never received the serial numbers for the vehicles in the mail as Jerry told him the previous day. Jerry, again being elusive about the subject, maintains that the documents are still in the mail. The man at GMAC sternly tells Jerry that he will refer the matter of the accounting irregularities to the company's legal department if he doesn't get the VIN numbers of the vehicles by the close of business the very next day. After the man at GMAC hangs up, Jerry flies into a rage as he realizes that his control over the situation is fading fast.

In Brainerd, Marge and Norm sit in a buffet restaurant eating lunch together. An officer comes in with some papers, and tells Marge he found phone numbers from two phone calls that were made that night from the room at Blue Ox Motel where the killers stayed, both to Minneapolis. The first one was to a trucking company, and another to the residence of Shep Proudfoot. Marge tells the officer and Norm that she'll take a drive down to Minneapolis to investigate.

At night at the Lundegaards' house, Jerry, Wade, and Stan are sitting around the kitchen table. Wade is telling Jerry he wants to deliver the $1 million himself to the kidnapper, and Jerry is upset, saying that they wanted to deal only with him. Wade (clearly distrustful of Jerry) says that if he can't deliver it, he'll go to the authorities.

The next day, Carl leaves Gaear behind at the lakeside cabin to look after Jean, while he drives alone to Minneapolis to pick up the ransom money. Carl first drives to the Minneapolis airport. He drives the tan Ciera up to the roof of the parking garage and steals a Minnesota license plate off another snow-covered car so he can replace the dealer tags (to prevent him from being pulled over by the police again). At the exit booth of the garage, he tells the attendant that he has decided not to park there and that he doesn't want to pay. The friendly man explains that there's a flat four dollar fee. Carl doesn't want to pay, but the polite parking attendant insists that he pay. Carl gets upset and insults him by saying: "I guess you think, you know, you're an authority figure, with that stupid fucking uniform. Huh, buddy?" he sneers. However, he gives him the money anyway and drives off.

At the dealership garage, Jerry goes to talk to Shep only to find Marge questioning him. Marge is questioning Shep about the phone call made to him from the Blue Ox Motel a few nights ago by one of the suspects of the three murders in her town. Shep claims that he doesn't remember receiving any phone call. She reminds him that he has a criminal record and currently is on parole, though nothing in his record suggests him capable of homicide, so if he had been talking to criminals and became an accessory to the Brainerd murders, that would land him back in prison. She then asks him cheerfully if he might remember anything now.

Marge then goes to visit with Jerry in his office. He is clearly antsy as he nervously doodles on a notepad. She tells him that she is investigating three murders in her upstate town of Brainerd and asks him if there has been a tan Cutlass Ciera stolen from the lot lately, but he dances anxiously around her question by changing the subject. He eventually tells her there haven't been any stolen vehicles, and she leaves. When he sees Marge leave, Jerry pick up his office phone and tries to call Shep in the garage, but another mechanic tells Jerry that Shep has just left; he just walked out after talking with Marge.

That evening, Marge goes to eat dinner at the Radisson Hotel restaurant; she apparently has spoken to Mike Yanagita, the man who called her late at night, and he meets her there. He is chatty and a little odd, and he is obviously and awkwardly trying to hit on her. He tries to change seats so as to sit next to her in the booth, but she politely tells him to sit back across from her, saying, "Just so I can see ya, ya know. Don't have to turn my neck." He apologizes awkwardly and clumsily launches into a story about his wife, whom he and Marge both knew from school but has since died of leukemia. He starts to cry, telling Marge he always liked her a lot. She comforts him politely.

In the celebrity room at another hotel, Carl sits at a table with another prostitute. He hits on her awkwardly as they watch Jose Feliciano on a small stage. Later in the prostitute's seedy apartment, they are having sex. Suddenly, she is flung off from on top of him by Shep, who has somehow tracked Carl down and is furious at Carl for nearly getting him in trouble with Marge. He kicks the escort in the rear as she runs screaming and naked down the hall. Shep beats up a tenant that appears in the hall asking about the noise. Shep goes back into the apartment and beats up Carl, first punching him and then throwing him across the room and hitting him viciously with his belt.

Sometime later, Carl, cut up and bruised from the beating, calls Jerry at his house. He is humiliated and extremely agitated. He tells Jerry to bring the ransom money to the Radisson Hotel parking garage roof in 30 minutes or he'll kill him and his family. Wade, listening on the other line in the house, immediately leaves with the briefcase full of the million dollars. Jerry almost asks Wade if he could come along, but being afraid of his antagonistic father-in-law, he chooses to say nothing. As he drives, Wade reveals he has brought a gun in his jacket and practices what he will say to the kidnapper. Jerry leaves soon after him to see what will happen.

On the roof of the parking garage, Carl sits waiting in his idling Ciera as Wade pulls up. Carl demands to know where Jerry is, and Wade demands to see Jean. Carl demands that Wade give him the briefcase with the money in it, but Wade refuses unless he sees his daughter Jean. Surprised and angry by Wade's demands, Carl shoots Wade in the stomach without hesitating and goes to snatch the briefcase from his hands. Wade shoots Carl in the face as he leans over. Carl reels back and grabs his wounded right jaw after being gazed by the bullet. He quickly lethally shoots Wade multiple times. Clutching his bleeding jaw while screaming in agonizing pain, Carl grabs the briefcase, gets into his car, and drives away. As he speeds through the garage, he passes Jerry. Both of them take a quick notice of each other, but Carl continues driving on. He drives up to the garage attendant and, holding his bloody jaw, tells the man to open the gate. At the same time, Jerry continues up to the roof and finds Wade lying there, shot dead. Jerry casually pops open his car trunk (to put his father-in-law in the trunk of his car).

As Jerry leaves the garage with Wade in his trunk, he sees that Carl has killed the attendant with a bullet to the head and smashed through the exit gate, breaking it off. A distraught Jerry goes home, and Scotty tells him Stan Grossman called for him. Jerry tells Scotty everything went fine, and he goes to bed without calling Stan back.

In Brainerd the next morning, Officer Gerry Olson, one of Marge's deputies, stops by the house of a chatty older man, named Mr. Mohra, who is shoveling snow off his driveway. The man had apparently reported an incident at his bar, and he tells Olson that a few days ago "a little funny-looking man" (obviously Carl) asked him where he could "get some action in the area" (hookers). When he refused, Carl had threatened the man and stupidly bragged about killing someone. He also says that Carl mentioned that he was staying out near a lake. The bar had been near Moose Lake, he tells the officer, so he believes that that is the place Carl was talking about. Officer Olson politely thanks the neighbor for the tip and leaves.

Meanwhile, Carl is stopped on the side of a snowy road, a bloody rag pressed against his wounded jaw. He looks inside the briefcase and is astounded at how much is inside; he had expected $80,000 and instead got the million that Jerry had been planning to keep mostly for himself. After thinking for a minute, Carl takes out the $80,000 that Gaear apparently would still be expecting and throws it in the backseat. He closes the case, fixes his rag, and takes it out into the snow beside a fence. He looks right and left, seeing only fence and snow, and he buries the money. Carl sticks an ice scraper into the snow on top as the only marker besides the bloodied snow he'd dug aside (presumably to come back later for the rest of it), and he drives away.

In Minneapolis, Marge sits next to her packed luggage in her hotel room talking on the phone to a female friend. She tells the friend that she saw Mike and that he was upset from his wife's death. The woman tells Marge that Mike never married that woman, that he had been bothering her for some time and that she is still alive. She tells Marge that Mike has been having life-long psychiatric problems and he has been living in an insane asylum for a few years now and that he is now living with his parents. Marge then checks out of the hotel, buys a breakfast sandwich from a Hardees restaurant, and silently ponders her next move and she contends driving back to Brainerd having gotten nowhere with her investigation. But then a thought pops into her head as she remembers something.

Marge then goes to visit Jerry at the car dealership, obviously having picked up something from his nervous and elusive behavior on her first visit the day before. He sits in his office writing out a new sales form for GMAC, making sure the serial numbers for the non-existent vehicles are again smudged and illegible. He is irritated by her visit. He tries to get her out, but polite and insistent as usual, Marge tells him that the tan Ciera she's investigating had dealer plates and that someone who works at the dealership got a phone call from the perpetrators, which is too much of a coincidence. She asks if he's done a lot count recently, and rather than answer, Jerry yells at her by saying that the car is not from that lot. In a serious tone, Marge tells Jerry not to get snippy with her. Jerry tells her he is cooperating, but it's obvious to us that he is now clearly insane at realizing the depth of the mess he has created and how miserably all his assorted schemes have failed. He jumps up, puts on his hat and coat, and tells her he'll go inventory the lot right now. Marge waits at the desk, looking at his picture of Jean and at the GMAC loan form on his desk. From the window she sees him driving out of the lot. She hurriedly calls the Minneapolis state police from Jerry's desk phone.

At the cabin, Gaear sits in his long johns eating a TV dinner as he watches a soap opera on the fuzzy television. Carl comes in with his bloodied face and the $80,000 he took from the briefcase before he buried it. Gaear looks unfazed by Carl's extensive wound. Carl asks what happened to Jean, who is lying on the kitchen floor motionless, still tied to the chair; there is blood on the stove behind her. Gaear tells Carl she started screaming and wouldn't stop. Carl shows him the money, takes his $40,000, and tells him he's keeping the Ciera and that Gaear can have his old truck and they must part ways. Gaear tells him they'll split the car.

"How do you split a fuckin' car, ya dummy?! With a fuckin' chainsaw?" Carl spits at him, his words slurred from his jaw wound. Gaear tells him one will pay the other for half, so Carl must pay half for the value of the car from his share money so he can take the car for himself. Carl refuses and screams that he got shot in the face and makes an implied threat that he will keep the Ciera as extra compensation. Carl storms out of the front door to the car to drive away. Seconds later, Gaear comes running out behind him wielding an ax. As Carl turns around, Gaear raises the ax and the scene cuts to black as the blade lands in Carl's neck.

A little later, Marge is driving along an isolated road talking on the CB radio to Lou. They are discussing Jean's kidnapping; that a Minneapolis police detective learned from Stan and Jean's son Scotty, and the fact that her father, Wade, is missing. She tells Lou she is driving around Moose Lake, following the tip from the loudmouth bar owner Mr. Mohra. Their conversation reveals that the news has gotten word out on the wire for the public to keep an eye out for Jerry and Wade. She suddenly spots the tan Ciera parked in front of the cabin. Lou tells her he will send her back-up.

When she gets out, she hears the loud roar of the motor of a power tool in the distance. She makes her way around the house towards the noise behind the cabin, and sees Gaear pushing Carl's dismembered foot down into a wood-chipper, having chopped up his dead body and disposing of it. There is a huge puddle of blood and the rest of Carl's body in the snow. Gaear works at getting the rest of Carl into the chipper, using a small log to push it down. Marge pulls her gun and yells at him to put his hands up, but he doesn't hear over the machine. She yells again, and he turns around to see her. She points to the police crest on her hat, aiming her gun at him. He turns quickly, hurls the log at her, and takes off across the frozen lake behind the cabin. The log glances her leg, and she fires after him twice as he flees. One shot hits him in the back of his thigh. He falls in the snow, and she arrests him.

Marge drives away with Gaear handcuffed in the backseat. "So that was Mrs. Lundegaard in there?" she asks, looking at him in the rear view mirror. He looks expressionlessly out the window.

"I guess that was your accomplice in the wood-chipper. And those three people in Brainerd..." He does not react; she is talking mostly to herself. She tells him there is more to life than a little bit of money. "Don't you know that?" she asks. She pulls over to the side of the road as a fleet of cruisers and an ambulance drive toward them on their way to the cabin. "And here you are. And it's a beautiful day."

Two days later, at a motel outside of Bismarck, North Dakota, two state policemen bang on a room door asking for a Mr. Anderson. The voice inside, Jerry's, tells them he'll be there in a sec. The owner unlocks the door, and Jerry is seen trying to escape out the bathroom window, wearing only a T-shirt and boxers. He screams and flails wildly and insanely as the police arrest him.

That night at the Gundersons', Marge climbs into bed next to Norm. He tells her the mallard he painted for a stamp contest has been chosen to be on the three cent stamp, but another man he knows got the twenty-nine cent. Marge tells him she's proud of him and that people use the three cent stamp all the time. Norm rests his hand on her pregnant belly and says, "Two more months."

She smiles and rests her hand on his, and repeats, "Two more months."

A tumbleweed rolls up a hillside just outside of Los Angeles as a mysterious man known as The Stranger narrates about a fella he wants to tell us about named Jeffrey Lebowski. With not much use for his given name, however, Jeffrey goes by the name The Dude. The Stranger describes Dude as one of the laziest men in LA, which would place him "high in the running for laziest worldwide", but nevertheless "the man for his place and time."

The year is 1990. The Dude, wearing a bathrobe and flips flops, buys a carton of cream at a local Ralph's grocery store with a post-dated check for 69 cents. On the TV, President George Bush Sr. is addressing the nation, saying "aggression will not stand" against Kuwait. Dude returns to his apartment where, upon entering and closing the door, he is promptly grabbed by two men who force him into the bathroom and shove his head in the toilet. They demand money owed to Jackie Treehorn, saying that The Dude's wife Bunny claimed he was good for it, before one of the thugs, Woo, urinates on The Dude's rug saying, "Ever thus to deadbeats, Lebowski!" Bewildered, Dude convinces them that they have the wrong person as he's not married and can't possibly possess the amount of money they're asking. Looking around, the first thug,, realizes they've made a mistake and must have the wrong Lebowski. Regardless, they break one of his bathroom tiles before leaving. "At least I'm housebroken", Dude calls after them.

Dude meets up with his bowling team at the local alley and talks to them about his violent encounter. Walter Sobchak reacts with anger and vengeance on his mind, often speaking of his time served in Vietnam to relate to the issue. Slow-witted Theodore Donald 'Donny' Kerabatsos, often entering conversations halfway through, pipes in but is promptly told by Walter, "You're out of your element". Walter then tells Dude about a millionaire who shares Dude's name and must be the one the thugs were after. Dude agrees to meet with the "Big Lebowski", hoping to get compensation for his rug since it "really tied the room together" and figures that his wife, Bunny, shouldn't be owing money around town.

Arriving at Lebowski's mansion, Dude is assisted by Brandt who shows him numerous awards and pictures illustrating Lebowski's endeavors in philanthropy before Dude meets the man himself. The elder and wheelchair-bound Lebowski brings Dude into his study where he quickly gets to the point and professes that he can't take responsibility for every spoiled rug in the city and accuses Dude of seeking a handout, clearly resentful of his hippie-like demeanor. Dude leaves the room and tells Brandt that Lebowski offered any rug in the house to him. He quickly picks one out and, as it's being loaded into Dude's car, he speaks to a young blonde woman poolside who is painting her toenails green. She asks Dude to blow on her toes, assuring him that Uli, the man in the pool, won't mind because he's a nihilist. Brandt appears and introduces her as Bunny Lebowski, Mr. Lebowski's much younger trophy wife, before she offers Dude fellatio for $1,000. Brandt nervously laughs and escorts Dude out.

During a league game at the alley, Dude scolds Walter for bringing his ex-wife's small dog in a kennel with him while she is in Hawai'i with her new boyfriend. As they debate, a member of the opposite team, Smokey, bowls an 8 and tells the Dude to mark it, but Walter objects, stating Smokey's foot was over the line. When Smokey argues, Walter pulls out a gun and aims it in Smokey's face, forcing him to comply and void the score as a zero. As Walter sits down again, he explains, "It's a league game, Smokey, there are rules". Dude scolds Walter as they leave, trying to act casual as police units arrive and run past them into the alley.

Afterwards, relaxing in his apartment and enjoying a White Russian drink, Dude listens to his phone messages: Smokey calling to talk about the gun incident, Brandt asking Dude to call him, and the bowling league administrator wishing to speak about Walter's belligerence and gun-brandishing on the lanes. Dude's doorbell rings and his landlord, Marty, reminds Dude to pay his rent and informs him that he's performing a dance at a local theater and would like Dude to attend to give him notes. The Dude obliges as Brandt rings again, telling Dude that Lebowski needs to see him and that it's not about the rug.

At the Lebowski mansion, Brandt solemnly leads Dude into the study where he finds Lebowski crying beside the lit fireplace. He shows Dude a crude note describing Bunny's kidnapping and the demand for $1 million. "This is a bummer, man," the Dude offers as he smokes a joint. Brandt explains that they want Dude to act as courier to deliver the payment when they receive word of a location for the drop off and tells Dude that he might even recognize the kidnappers as the same people who soiled his rug.

Back at the bowling alley, a Hispanic man wearing a hairnet and a purple jumpsuit with 'Jesus' embroidered on the front bowls a perfect strike. A few lanes down, Dude, Donny, and Walter watch him with slight resentment. Dude compliments on Jesus' skill but Walter criticizes him for being a 'pederast', having served six months for exposing himself to an eight year-old before asking Dude about the Lebowski arrangement. Dude explains that he will receive $20,000 as courier and shows Walter the beeper Brandt gave him. He doesn't worry about the hand off and figures that Bunny kidnapped herself for some extra money. Walter seems to take Bunny's offense personally as Jesus walks over, telling them to watch out for his team and if they flash a piece at the finals "I'll take it away from you, stick it up your ass and pull the fucking trigger till it goes click."

At his apartment, Dude lies happily on his new rug, listening to a taped bowling game through headphones. He opens his eyes and sees a red-haired woman and two men standing over him before he is punched in the face and knocked out by them. He dreams that he is flying over LA, chasing a woman who is riding his rug ahead of him. A bowling ball suddenly appears in his hand and pulls him to the ground where he stands, miniaturized, facing a gigantic bowling ball as it rolls towards him. He tenses and winds up in one of the finger holes of the ball. From his perspective, we see the ball roll down the lane away from its female bowler towards the pins. As the pins scatter, the Dude wakes up to the sound of his beeper going off and finds that his rug has been taken from underneath him.

Answering the page, Dude returns to Lebowski's mansion where Brandt explains that the kidnappers want the exchange to happen that very night. He gives Dude a portable phone and a briefcase with the money, instructing him to take it up the highway and wait for the kidnappers to call. Once the exchange is complete, Dude is to call Brandt immediately. Before he leaves, Brandt repeats to Dude that "her life is in your hands".

Despite Brandt's instructions to go alone, Dude picks up Walter from his store. Walter gets in the drivers seat and immediately proposes a plan for a switch, holding his own briefcase full of dirty underwear, so that he and Dude can keep the million themselves. Walter also plans to capture one of the kidnappers and beat Bunny's location out of him. Dude is adamantly against the crazy plan but when the kidnappers call, Dude accidentally lets slip that he's not alone. The kidnappers hang up and Dude panics that Bunny is as good as dead, though Walter reminds him of his own suspicions that Bunny kidnapped herself. The kidnappers call again and give a location granted there is no funny 'schtuff'. At the designated location, the kidnappers call and instruct The Dude to throw the suitcase out the car window onto a bridge. As they approach the bridge, Dude tries to throw the real suitcase but, at the last second, Walter tosses the ringer and forces Dude to take the wheel as he arms himself with an Uzi and bails out of the moving car. Despite his seemingly flawless and heroic plan, Walter loses grip of the Uzi and it fires wildly, hitting Dude's tail lights and tires, causing him to panic and crash into a telephone pole. Three men on motorcycles appear just beyond the bridge and, as Dude scrambles out of the car with the briefcase, pick up the ringer and ride off. Walter calmly gets up and says, "Fuck it, Dude. Lets go bowling".

At the alley, the portable phone rings incessantly, no doubt Brandt calling to check on the mission. Dude is miserable, angry at Walter, and certain that Bunny will be killed, though Walter is calm and convinced that Bunny kidnapped herself. He tells Dude not to worry and that Bunny will eventually get bored and return home on her own but becomes dismayed to see that the bowling schedule has him playing on Saturday; something he is forbidden to do since he is Shomer Shabbos and must honor the Jewish day of rest. The Dude wonders why Walter didn't go back to being Catholic since he only converted for his ex-wife. Donny interjects mid-conversation and is, again, told to 'shut the fuck up' by Walter.

As they leave, Dude discovers his car missing - along with the briefcase. Walter suggests it was towed because they parked in a handicapped spot but Dude is certain that it was stolen. He starts walking home with his phone ringing.

Dude resolves to call the police and issue a statement for his stolen car. Two police officers arrive at his apartment to take notes and Dude addresses the separate issue of his missing rug just before his home phone rings. The answering machine records a woman introducing herself as Maude Lebowski and saying that she is the one who took his rug and has sent a car to pick Dude up at his apartment. The younger of the two cops is pleased that the missing rug issue is resolved.

The Dude is brought to a huge loft studio filled with canvases and minimal illumination. As he walks in, he is startled by the sudden appearance of Maude, swinging in naked on a zip line, screaming and flailing paintbrushes over a large canvas to create an abstract image. She descends to the ground and is robed before addressing The Dude. She explains that she is a professional artist whose work is commended as strongly vaginal, often to the point of making some men uncomfortable. She tells Dude that the rug he took was a gift from her to her late mother and her father, Big Lebowski, had no right giving it away. Maude's flamboyant assistant, Knox Harrington, watches as Dude fixes himself a White Russian and Maude puts a tape in her VCR. She asks Dude if he enjoys sex as the video rolls; a smut film starring Bunny Lebowski and Uli, the German nihilist, credited as Karl Hungus. Maude surmises that Bunny kidnapped herself, elaborating on the already obvious notion that she gets around and even bangs the producer of the film, Jackie Treehorn. As one of two trustees of Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, one of Lebowski's charity programs, Maude noticed a withdrawal of $1 million from its funds and was told it was for the ransom. Though she is more or less estranged from her father, she doesn't want to involve the police in his embezzlement and offers the Dude ten percent of the one million if he retrieves the money from the kidnappers. With a finder's fee she tells him he can buy himself a new rug. She then apologizes for the crack on the jaw and gives The Dude a number for a doctor who will examine him free of charge.

The Dude is given a limo ride back to his apartment where the driver points out a blue Volkswagen Beetle that had been following them. Before The Dude has a chance to do anything about it, he's shoved into another limo waiting for him on the street. Inside, Brandt and Lebowski confront him about the fact that he never called them and yell that the kidnappers never got the money. Lebowski accuses Dude of stealing the million himself as Dude tries to reason that the 'royal we' dropped off the money and that Bunny, since she apparently owes money all over town, most likely kidnapped herself and probably instructed her kidnappers to lie about the hand off. Brandt and Lebowski look skeptical before producing an envelope. Lebowski tells Dude that the kidnappers will be dealing directly with him now and any mishaps will be avenged tenfold on him. Inside the envelope, Dude finds a severed pinky toe wrapped in gauze with green polish on the nail.

In a small cafe, The Dude tells Walter about the severed toe who doesn't believe it's Bunny's. Walter calls the kidnappers a bunch of "fucking amateurs" for using such an obviously fake ruse but The Dude isn't convinced. Walter tries to convince him by saying that he can get a toe for him in no time at all and with his choice of nail polish color. Despite Walter's unwavering stance, Dude fears for his life; if the kidnappers don't get him, Lebowski will.

At home, the Dude tries to relax in the bathtub, smoking a joint and listening to music. His phone rings and the answering machine records the LAPD telling him that they've recovered his car. Dude is overjoyed for a moment until he hears a loud banging in his living room. He looks up to see three men breaking into his apartment wearing dark clothes. The leader, whom Dude recognizes as Uli/Karl Hungus the nihilist, along with his two cohorts, Franz and Kieffer, enters the bathroom with a ferret on a leash. He dunks the terrified animal in the tub where it thrashes and shrieks as Dude tries to avoid it. Uli takes the ferret out, letting it shake off, and tells Dude that they want their money tomorrow or they'll cut off his johnson.

The following morning, the Dude goes to the impound lot to collect his car which turns up badly damaged and reeking with a terrible stench, an apparent victim of a joyride and temporary home to some vagrants. The briefcase is gone. Dude asks the officer at the lot if anyone is following up on who might have taken the car, but the officer chuckles and sarcastically says that their department has them working in shifts on the case.

At the bar in the bowling alley, Dude expresses his fears to an unsympathetic Walter and an unhelpful Donny. Unable to cheer him up, they leave Dude at the bar to find an open lane. The Stranger sits down next to Dude and orders a sarsaparilla before chatting briefly with Dude, complimenting him on his style and wondering why he uses so many cuss words. He offers Dude one piece of advice before leaving: "Sometimes you eat the bar, and sometimes the bar, well, he eats you." Gary, the bartender, hands Dude the phone; it's Maude. She's miffed that Dude hasn't seen the doctor yet and instructs him to meet her at her loft. There, Dude informs Maude that he thinks Bunny was really kidnapped, possibly by Uli. Maude disagrees, saying that Bunny knows Uli and the kidnappers cannot be acquaintances. She then dismisses Dude to take a call, reminding him to see the doctor.

At the clinic the doctor tells Dude to remove his shorts, insisting despite Dude's assurance that he was only hit in the face. Driving home, Dude enjoys a joint while listening to Creedence but soon notices a blue Volkswagen following him. Distracted, he tries to flick his joint out the window but it bounces back and lands in his lap, burning him. He screams and dumps beer on his lap before he swerves and crashes into a dumpster. When he looks out the window, the blue car is gone. Looking down, he notices a piece of paper stuck in the car seat. It's a graded homework sheet with the name Larry Sellers written on it.

That night, at Marty's dance quartet, Walter reveals that he's done some research on Larry and discovered where he lives, near the In-N-Out Burger joint. He is also thrilled to report that Larry's father is Arthur Digby Sellers, a famous screenwriter who wrote 156 episodes of the show Branded. Walter is certain that Larry has the briefcase of money and that their troubles are over. They pull up to the house where The Dude is dismayed to see a brand new red Corvette parked on the street outside. A Hispanic housekeeper lets them into the Sellers' home where they see the elderly Arthur Sellers in an iron lung in the living room. Over the hissing of the compressor, Walter calls out that he's a big fan of Arthur's and that his work was a source of inspiration to him before the housekeeper brings in young Larry, a 15-year-old with a deadpanned expression. Walter and Dude interrogate Larry about the money and the fact that he stole Dude's car, but they get no response... not even a wavering glance from the teenager. Walter resolves to go to Plan B; he tells Larry to watch out the window as he and Dude go back out to the car where Donny is waiting. Walter removes a tire iron from Dudes trunk and proceeds to smash the corvette, shouting, "This is what happens when you fuck a stranger in the ass!"

However, the car's real owner comes out of his house and rips the tire iron from Walter, shouting that he just bought the car last week, before going over to The Dude's car and breaking all the windows. Dude drives silently home, wind blowing in through the broken windows, as Walter and Donny eat In-N-Out burgers.

Back home, Dude talks to Walter over the phone as he nails a two-by-four to the floor near the front door. He yells at Walter, telling him to leave him alone and that he wants to handle the situation himself before agreeing to go to their next bowling practice. He hangs up and props a chair against the door, braced by the piece of wood, and turns away as the door opens outwardly and Treehorn's two thugs from the beginning of the film walk in. They tell The Dude that Jackie Treehorn wishes to meet with him.

The Dude is taken to a large mansion overlooking a beach front where a tribal, orgy-like party is going on. Inside, Dude meets porno producer Jackie Treehorn who appears friendly and agreeable as he mixes the Dude a White Russian and sympathizes for his lost rug. Treehorn asks him where Bunny is to which Dude responds that he thought Treehorn knew. Treehorn denies knowing anything about Bunny's abduction and theorizes that Bunny faked her own kidnapping and then ran off knowing how much money she owed him. Treehorn is then excused for a phone call. He writes something down on a notepad before leaving the room momentarily. Employing the trick of rubbing a pencil lightly over the pad of paper to see what was written, Dude reveals a doodle of a man with a rather large penis. He rips the paper out of the pad and sticks it in his pocket before returning to the couch as Treehorn comes back. He offers Dude a ten percent finder's fee if he tells them where the money is. Dude tells him that Larry Sellers should have the money, though Treehorn is not convinced. Dude insists he's telling the truth as his words begin to slur and his vision glazes over. He mumbles, "All the Dude ever wanted was his rug back...it really tied the room together," before he passes out... drugged from the drink.

The Dude falls into a deep dream where he sees himself happily starring in a Jackie Treehorn-produced bowling picture entitled 'Gutterballs' with Maude, dressed in a seducing Viking outfit, as his costar. They dance together and throw a bowling ball down the lane. The ball turns into the Dude, floating above the lane floor and passing under ladies' skirts. When he hits the pins at the end, he suddenly sees the three nihilists dressed in tight clothes and snapping super large scissors, chasing him. He runs from them, terrified, as he wakes from his dream, staggering down a street in Malibu while a police car pulls up behind him. The unit picks him up as he slurs the theme song to 'Branded'.

At the Malibu police station, the chief of police goes through The Dude's wallet before he tells Dude that Jackie Treehorn phoned them to report that he was drunk and disorderly at his 'garden party'. He tells Dude that Treehorn is an important source of income in Malibu and demands that he stay out of the town for good. Dude replies that he wasn't listening which incites the chief to throw his coffee mug at him, hitting him in the head.

Dude takes a taxi ride home and requests that the driver change the radio station since he had a rough night and hates the Eagles. The hostile driver doesn't take kindly to this and throws The Dude out. As he stands on the street, a red convertible passes by at high speed unnoticed by the Dude; it's Bunny listening to 'Viva Las Vegas' and, as we see, with a complete set of toes on each foot.

Dude returns to his apartment to find it completely wrecked. He enters and trips over the two-by-four he nailed into the floor. When he looks up, he finds Maude standing before him dressed in nothing but his robe. She drops it to the floor and tells him to make love to her. Afterwards, they lie in bed together as The Dude smokes a joint and tells her about his past as a student activist and his current hobbies which include bowling and the occasional acid flashback. As he climbs out of bed to make a White Russian drink, Maude asks about the apartment and Dude explains that Treehorn's thugs most likely vandalized it looking for Lebowski's money. Maude retorts that her father actually has no money; the $1 million cash was all her mother's or else belongs to the Foundation and that Lebowski's only concern is to run the charities. Maude gives him an allowance but his weakness is vanity; "Hence the slut". She tells Dude this as she folds into a yoga position which she claims increases the chances of conception. Dude chokes on his drink but Maude assures him that she has no intention of having Dude be a part of the child-bearing process nor does she want to see him socially. The Dude then figures that's why she wanted him to visit the doctor so badly until an idea suddenly comes to mind about Lebowski. Dude calls Walter to pick him up and take him to Lebowski's mansion right away, despite Walter's protests that he doesn't drive on Shabbos unless it's an emergency. Dude assures him that it's just that.

Dude dresses and goes outside where he sees the blue Volkswagen parked just down the street. He walks over and demands that the man within get out. The man introduces himself as Da Fino and explains that he thinks Dude is a fellow private eye who is brilliantly playing two sides against each other; the thugs and Lebowski, and means no harm to him or his girlfriend. Confused, Dude tells Da Fino to stay away from his 'lady friend' and asks if he's working for Lebowski or Treehorn. Da Fino admits that he's employed by the Kneutson's; Bunny's family. Apparently, Bunny's real name is Fawn and she ran away from her Minnesota home a year ago and Da Fino's been investigating since. As Walter pulls up, Dude tells Da Fino to, again, stay away from his lady friend and leaves.

At a local restaurant, the three German nihilists and a sallow, blonde woman sit together ordering pancakes. The camera pans down to the woman's foot covered in a bandage which, where her pinky toe should be, is soaked in dried blood.

Driving out to Lebowski mansion, Dude explains his new theory; why did Lebowski do nothing to him if he knew the payoff never happened? If Lebowski thought that The Dude took the money, why didn't he ask for it back? Because the briefcase given to Dude was never full of money since the Dude never opened it to look at the contents: "You threw a ringer out for a ringer!" He also figures that Lebowski chose him, an otherwise "fuck-up", to get Bunny back because he never wanted her back; he wanted her dead while he embezzled money from the foundation as a ransom. Walter agrees with the theory but still believes he shouldn't have been bothered on the Shabbos.

As they pull up to the mansion, they see Bunny's red convertible crashed into some shrubbery near the front fountain. Bunny is running around the grounds naked while, inside, Brandt attempts to pick up her discarded clothes. He tells them that Bunny went to visit friends in Palm Springs without telling anyone and she has returned. Despite his protests, Walter and Dude walk past him into the study where a stern-looking Lebowski sits. Dude demands an answer; he accuses Lebowski of keeping the million for himself while he used The Dude as a scapegoat to cover up for the missing money. Lebowski says that it's his word against Dude's and no one would believe a "deadbeat" over him. This angers Walter who figures Lebowski to be a fake handicap besides a phony millionaire and lifts Lebowski out of his chair, dropping him to the floor. However, Lebowski lies still on the floor, whimpering, and Dude tells Walter to help him back in his chair.

At the bowling alley, Donny misses a strike for the first time and puzzles over this as Walter drones on about the war in Kuwait as it relates to Vietnam to The Dude who doesn't seem to be paying attention as he paints over his fingernails with clear polish. Jesus walks over, criticizing the change in schedule from Saturday to Wednesday before issuing sexual threats. The Dude, Walter, and Donny sit unfazed. As they leave the alley and head into the parking lot, they are faced by the three German nihilists once again who stand in front of The Dude's flaming car with a portable radio blasting German techno music. "Well, they finally did it," he despairs. "They killed my fucking car."

The nihilists demand the money or they will kill the girl, but Dude tells them that he knows they never had the girl in the first place. The nihilists reply that they don't care and still want the money but Dude tries to explain that Lebowski's money was never valid; he never intended to pay them off and Walter shouts that without a hostage, there is no ransom. Franz complains that his girlfriend had to give up her pinky toe because she thought she was getting $1 million but they'll settle for whatever Walter, Donny, and Dude have in their pockets. Donny, in the back, asks if the men are going to hurt them and Walter assures him that they're nihilists and cowards as Dude pulls out his wallet. When Walter refuses to take his own out, Uli pulls out a sword and Walter engages in a fight with them, throwing his bowling ball into Franz's stomach. Walter attacks Uli and bites off his ear, spitting it into the air. He unloads a heavy hit to Uli's face, calling him an "anti-Semite". He also hits Kieffer in the face with his radio and bashes him in the back, knocking him out. He turns around and sees Donny on the ground, clutching his chest. Walter comforts him, saying Donnie's having a heart attack. He orders The Dude to call an ambulance.

The Dude and Walter are then seen at a funeral parlor speaking with the curator. Donny, having passed away, was cremated and they negotiate how his remains will be handled. Walter is outraged at the high price of the urn. The curator tells them that the urn is their most "modestly-priced receptacle" and that the ashes must be given to them in a container of some sort. Walter asks if there's a Ralph's store nearby and he and The Dude resolve to receive Donny's ashes in a Folger's coffee can. They travel together to a windy cliff-side overlooking the ocean where Walter gives a heartfelt speech about Donny along with a seemingly unrelated reference to Vietnam before opening the can and shaking out the ashes. The wind blows them back into Dude's face, coating his clothes, beard, and sunglasses. Walter apologizes and attempts to brush the ashes off but the Dude yells at him for always making everything a 'fucking travesty' and scolds him for yet another needless Vietnam rant. Walter hugs him and tells him to "Fuck it, man; let's go bowling." The Dude eases down.

At the bowling alley, the Stranger sits at the bar as the Dude orders two beers. They greet each other and the Stranger asks how he's been doing. "Oh, you know, strikes and gutters, ups and downs," answers The Dude as he collects his beers and goes to leave. The Stranger tells him to take it easy and The Dude turns to reply, "Yeah, well, The Dude abides."

In the final shot, the Stranger finds comfort in those words and rambles to the viewers about how things seem to have turned out fine for Dude and Walter. He was sad to see Donny go but happens to know that there's a little Lebowski on the way. He assures us that The Dude is always out there taking it easy for "all us sinners" and orders another sarsaparilla drink for himself.

Ulysses Everett McGill, a suave, fast-taking convict, escapes from incarceration in Mississippi during the Great Depression. He is chained to two other prisoners, slow-witted Delmar and hot-tempered Pete, so the three must escape together. Everett convinces them that he has hidden $1.2 million after robbing an armored car, and promises to split it with them. They hitch a ride with an elderly blind man on a railway handcar, and he foretells that they will indeed find a treasure, though it may not be the one they seek.

They travel on foot to visit Pete's cousin, Washington Hogwallop, who removes their shackles and allows them to sleep in his barn. However, the trio is awakened by the authorities, led by the partly-blinded World War I veteran Sheriff Cooley after Hogwallop turns them in for the reward. The barn is set ablaze, but Everett, Pete, and Delmar escape with the help of Hogwallop's rambunctious young son (who drives them out of the fiery barn in a car).

They continue their journey, and encounter a religious congregation in the midst of a mass baptism. Pete and Delmar are drawn in and are baptized as well, but Everett resists. They later pick up a hitchhiking young black guitarist, Tommy Johnson, who claims he sold his soul to the devil in exchange for musical talent. They hear that the nearby WEZY radio station pays people to sing into a can, so they pay a visit to the blind disc jockey, and sing a version of "Man of Constant Sorrow" with Tommy accompanying them. Calling themselves 'The Soggy Bottom Boys', they are paid cash and leave satisfied. However, unbeknownst to them, their record becomes wildly popular around the state, with no one knowing the identity of the band.

That night, the shadowy Sheriff Cooley and police track them down and find their car near their campsite. Everett, Pete, and Delmar part ways with Tommy as they escape. The next day, they meet famed robber George 'Babyface' Nelson, on the run from police, and accompany him in robbing a bank. He gives them a share of the stolen loot and departs.

The trio encounters three sirens: beautiful women washing clothes in the river, and are seduced by them. Delmar and Everett discover the next morning that Pete has disappeared, and Delmar believes the women had turned him into a toad (which was found in Pete's abandoned clothes). Carrying "Pete" in a shoebox, Delmar and Everett go to a restaurant where they meet Big Dan Teague, a one-eyed Bible salesman. Thinking that their box contains money, Big Dan lures them to a field for an advanced tutorial on salesmanship. He violently beats the two men, kills the toad after finding no cash, and steals their car.

Everett and Delmar arrive at Everett's hometown, where he attempts to speak to his estranged wife, Penny, mother of his seven daughters. He finds that Penny is engaged to Vernon T. Waldrip, the campaign manager for Homer Stokes, who is running for governor against the grouchy elderly incumbent, Pappy O'Daniel. Penny refuses to take Everett back, and was so ashamed of his arrest that she told their daughters he was hit by a train and killed.

Rejected, Everett and Delmar attend a movie, where a prison chain gang is in the audience. Pete, it turns out, was turned into the police by the Sirens, and is once again in chains. In the theater, Pete advises his friends to abandon their quest, as it is a "bushwhack."

That night, Everett and Delmar stealthily break him out of jail. Pete tearfully confesses that, after threatened with death by the authorities, he revealed their plans to find the armored car loot for Sheriff Cooley, whom they finally learn is the one who has been hunting them across the state. However, Everett reveals that he fabricated the story to entice Pete and Delmar to escape with him. Everett had truthfully been arrested for practicing law without a license, and was determined to escape when he heard his wife planned to remarry. If caught, the trio could face an additional 50 years in jail. An enraged Pete tackles Everett.

The three stumble upon a Ku Klux Klan rally in a nearby field. Shocked, they see that Tommy Johnson has been captured and that the Klan is preparing to hang him. The trio disguise themselves as color guard members and attempt to rescue Tommy, but are confronted by Big Dan Teague, a member in attendance. The Grand Wizard, it so happens, is candidate for governor Homer Stokes. After a scuffle, Everett, Pete, and Delmar topple a huge fiery crucifix onto Big Dan, presumably killing him, and escape with Tommy.

The four men arrive at a campaign dinner, disguised by long false beards. Pretending to be the hired band, they slip onstage and entertain (Delmar sings an impressive version of "In the Jailhouse Now") while Everett attempts to speak to Penny again. When the men launch into "Man of Constant Sorrow", they watch in awe as the entire audience rises to its feet and cheers, recognizing them as the elusive Soggy Bottom Boys. However, Homer Stokes arrives and tries to reveal them as the men who disrupted the lynch mob in performance of its duties. The townspeople are outraged at Homer's confessed racism, and literally ride him out on a rail. Everett, Pete, Delmar, and Tommy resume playing, and a delighted (and victorious) Pappy O'Daniel joins them onstage and grants them an official pardon. After the event, Penny takes Everett back, but demands that he return to their old cabin and retrieve her wedding ring. The four men depart quickly, as the cabin is in the valley that is due to be flooded the following day. They briefly see Babyface Nelson again, re-captured by police, but in extremely high spirits, happy at the thought of being executed in the electric chair.

The men arrive at the cabin the next morning, but to their horror find that Sheriff Cooley has caught up with them and his men have already dug their graves. As the authorities loop nooses over a tree branch, Everett drops to his knees and prays that he might see his daughters again. At that moment, the valley is flooded. The cabin is destroyed, and Everett, Pete, Delmar, and Tommy surface on the newly-made lake. They retrieve the sought-after ring from a floating rolltop desk, and return to town.

Shortly afterwards, Everett is happily reunited with Penny and his children. The family is taking a walk through the town when Penny remarks that the ring Everett brought her is the wrong one. She firmly asserts to a frustrated Everett that he must find the original ring (now at the bottom of a lake). Their daughters sing the hymn Angel Band as they cross paths with the elderly handcar operator who had predicted Everett's fate.

We open on a large, leather bound novel on top of a table that is titled: 'BUSTER SCRUGGS & OTHER TALES OF THE AMERICAN FRONTIER'. The film itself is an anthology of six tales taken from the book with six, consequent, colour plate illustrations for each story. We slowly open the book and observe the first colour plate and first story...

Story 1: THE BALLAD OF BUSTER SCRUGGS Colour Illustration: Two cowboys rising from a gambling table, with one pointing a gun at the other and the caption below reading: "'You seen 'em, you play 'em,' sneered the surly man".

We begin the story in Colorado, in Monument Valley as we observe the protagonist of this story: Buster Scruggs. He dresses like Glen Campbell's 'Rhinestone Cowboy', rides a white stallion named 'Dan', plays a guitar, and merrily sings the country tune: 'Cool, Clear Water'. He brings his horse to a stop in a low canyon, and "breaks the fourth wall" as he tells the viewers who he is and how he doesn't really consider his "outlaw" status to be earned as he removes a 'WANTED' poster from one of his saddlebags. He then resolves to ride over to a nearby cantina for a well-deserved drink and potential game of cards.

He finally arrives at the run-down cantina and asks the owner for a drink of whiskey. The unhelpful barkeeper tells Buster that whiskey is prohibited; the county is under prohibition laws. Buster points out the five thugs (and only customers) sitting at a nearby table drinking liquor and the barman explains that they are "outlaws". Buster explains that though he may have the appearance of a "tinhorn", he is in fact an outlaw himself. However, one of the thugs rises and provokes Buster into a duel. There and then, Buster quickly draws a fires on the thug, blowing a hole in his head! When the man's friends attempt to fire on Buster, Scruggs quickly guns the rest of them down as well before shooting the bartender who was in the act of reaching for a shotgun above the bar. Buster then holsters his pistol, opens the door of the cantina for a wounded thug and sets off on Dan, for the nearby town of "Frenchman's Gulch".

Eventually, Buster arrives at the town and goes over to the local saloon. He is accosted at the door by an elderly man who requests that he turns in all of his firearms, courtesy of "House Policy". Buster does so reluctantly, realizing what a disadvantage he is now in. He spots a nearby poker table and goes over, hoping to join in on the game as one of the players quickly exits. He takes his seat with the three other players but it's now that he happens to look at his hand: "Dead Man's Hand". He expresses to the table, his wishes to not play the hand, but is threatened by a large, brutish man at the end of the table by the name of Joe, who growls over: "You seen 'em, you play 'em!" When Buster refuses, Joe rises from the table and reveals a hidden pistol, holstered at his hip. He removes it and aims it at Buster, who promptly introduces himself before reminding the man of the "House Policy". Joe is about to open fire when Buster quickly kicks down on the wooden boards of the poker table, catapulting the table up and into Joe's hand, which is knocked backwards into Joe's face as the pistol goes off, firing in his face! Buster does this twice more, before Joe falls to the floor, dead! Buster promptly bursts into song over the deceased thug, and is soon joined by the contents of the cantina and piano player as they all sing "Surly Joe The Gambler".

However, without Buster's notice, "Surly Joe's" brother Ike has made his way into the saloon and sits, bitterly sobbing over his dead brother's body. Once the singing stops, Ike promptly gets up and challenges the reluctant Buster to a duel outside in revenge over his brother.

Outside, Buster readies himself and loads his pistol before meeting Ike in the street. He asks Ike if he needs a "count" before the shoot. Ike answers "Na'Sir", but this is a fatal error as Buster uses this to quickly fire upon Ike, blowing his index finger off! He then blasts off Ike's remaining fingers and thumb so that he's unable to fire back with his gun hand. However, this fails to stop Ike, who continues to struggle for his gun with his left hand. Buster realizes that he'll have to kill him but is determined to do it in style: he turns away from the struggling Ike and uses a small mirror to aim his pistol back over his shoulder! It's a near-impossible shot, but Buster makes it effortlessly, gunning down the agonized Ike!

He goes over to Ike's body and is about to sing when the sound of a harmonica, heralds the arrival of a young gunslinger, dressed in black and riding a black stallion. He greets Buster respectfully, acknowledging his reputation as a "singing" gunman. He promptly challenges Buster to a duel; Buster is known as "the one to beat". Reluctantly, Buster consents to the duel and loads his pistol, candidly joking about how he should go into the "undertaking business". It's now that the young man asks Buster if he needs a count. Buster however, makes the same, fatal mistake as Ike, coolly answering: "Na'Sir". This is all the other man needs, who puts a bullet straight through Buster's forehead! Buster is puzzled, but upon seeing the hole in his forehead (with the mirror), he sheepishly remarks: "Well, that a'int good", and falls down, dead! Via a heavenly voice-over, the ghost of Buster Scruggs summarizes: "I shoulda seen this comin'; can't be top dog forever!"

The young man strolls over to Buster's body and bursts into song himself, singing a duet with Buster's winged, lyre-playing ghost: "When A Cowboy Trades His Spurs For Wings". Slowly, we see the young man ride away and watch, as Buster's ghost ascends into heaven and the song ends...

This first story ends and we turn to the next one in the book.

Story 2: NEAR ALGODONES Colour Illustration: An elderly man covered in pots and pans and clutching a shotgun, with the caption reading: "'Pan shot!' cried the old man".

This next story begins at an isolated savings bank in the middle of a desolate prairie. A young cowboy, rides up to the establishment and goes on inside. He engages the jabbering bank teller in meaningless conversation but then removes a pistol from his side and aims it at the teller, demanding money! The teller sheepishly consents and stoops to remove the bills before firing off three, concealed shotguns at the footing of the cowboy. The young man manages to avoid each burst of fire but when he climbs over the till, he finds that the teller has apparently fled the bank. He removes the bills, places them in a large satchel and exits the bank. However, as he heads for his horse, his foot is grazed with buck shot, forcing him to drop the money and take cover behind a nearby well. He tries to get his horse to come to him, but as he looks over the well, he sees the crazed teller exit the side of the bank, wearing a set of pots and pans for armour and clutching his shotgun. The teller sees him and charges, the cowboy fires at him, but every time he fires, the bullet is deflected by the teller's "armour", who jeeringly cries at the young man: "Pan shot!" The cowboy continues to fire until he runs out of bullets, as the teller finally reaches him and knocks him unconscious with the butt of his heavy shotgun! The film cuts to black...

When the cowboy wakes, we seem him mounted on top of a horse with a noose around his neck and his hands bound. He is facing a lynching posse, led by a lawman dressed in black. The lawman addresses him curtly, saying that he is sentenced to hang for the crime of bank robbery and asks if he is willing to give up his horse to the posse once he is dead. The cowboy refuses, but before his "sentence" can be carried out, the posse is ambushed by a small war party of Commanche Indians who promptly massacre all the members of the lynching group, including the lawman. Through the bloody chaos, the cowboy tries to keep his horse steady, so that he won't fall off and hang himself. Eventually, the brutal warriors depart after claiming their victory (and consequent scalps) and the cowboy is left alone. The horse is visibly unnerved and continues to trot further forwards, forcing the cowboy, ever closer to falling off and hanging!

He sits like this on his horse for a while, until he is suddenly discovered by a scruffy young drover, who's been leading a herd of cattle across the plains. The drover resolves to shoot the cowboy free and takes aim at the rope of the noose. He fires, but misses, and the horse bolts, temporarily hanging the cowboy! The drover fires again and again until finally, he shoots through the rope and sends the cowboy crashing to the floor! A little while later, the cowboy is riding side-by-side with the drover as they drive the cattle on wards, through the desert of Algodones, Mexico. The drover proposes for them to become partners when suddenly, he spots riders on the horizon! He sharply abandons both the cowboy and the herd, riding off in the opposite direction. The cowboy is puzzled, not understanding who's who or what's what...

The next time we see the cowboy, he is chained and being herded through a small town by a rough bailiff. He is brought up to the town's grumpy old fart of a judge, and swiftly sentenced to hang, despite the flimsy evidence and his pleads of innocence. The cowboy is taken up to a public gallows, where his noosed along with several other, blubbering criminals. The cowboy looks down off the gallows, and spots a pretty young woman in the audience. He smiles, and remarks: "There's a pretty girl", before a hood his placed over his head, and the lever is pulled, to the thunderous applause of the crowd...

The second story ends, and now begins the third story of the book.

Story 3: MEAL TICKET Colour Illustration: A young thespian with a powdered face, looking heavenwards with the caption reading: "'The quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven'".

Our next story begins in the forested mountains of Colorado, as we follow an aged, Irish Impresario. He drives a small wagon that is painted with various illustrations, depicting great works of literature and theatre. The Impresario pulls into a small mining town where he dishes out pamphlets detailing an apparent show he intends to put on, featuring: "The Artistry Of Edwin Horatio Harrison"/"The Wingless Thrush". He now goes round to his wagon, which he converts into a small stage with lighting, a painted background and a chair in the center. Slowly, people begin to turn up for the performance and at 08:30 pm, the Impresario reveals the main event of his show: an arm-less, legless thespian who sits upon the chair in the center of the stage and is to be known as Horatio Edwin Harrison. The audience is visibly shocked but enchanted, as this deformed actor begins to recite infamous works and speeches from literature, Shakespeare and real life including: "Ozymandias"; the story of Cain and Abel; Sonnet 29 and the Gettysburg Address. All the while, the Impersario goes through the audience collecting donations and tips.

This is the life of Horatio and the Impresario: travelling from town to town, to deliver recital after recital, as the Impresario cares for, feeds and cleans the disadvantaged thespian. As they travel further North, snow begins to set in. The profits also begin to decrease as the audiences rapidly loose interest...

One night, after drunkenly singing the Irish folk tune 'Weela Walla Wallya', the Impresario takes Horatio down into the nearby town to visit the local brothel. While the Impresario get's his money's worth, Horatio is left, turned to face a wall. Afterwards, the portly prostitute, asks the Impresario if his friend wants any "loving", but the Impresario answers "no", saying that he was once in love...

The pair give another performance that yields hardly any turnover as their crowd begin to leave. The Impresario is busy folding the stage up when suddenly, his attention is caught by what exactly the audience has turned to instead. He goes over to the assembled crowd and sees what they're all looking at: on a lighted stage (not unlike Horatio's), a chicken performs basic maths: addition and subtraction! People pose the chicken's owner various sums and the chicken is tasked with pecking at the right answers on painted slabs. The Impresario is amused at this spectacle, but more interested in the amount of people and the amounts of their consequent tips! Gathering all the money that he's amassed over his and Horatio's performances, the Impresario buys the chicken of its owner. He feeds it and cares for it, just as he's cared for Horatio, but the young thespian now realizes that he has sadly been replaced and is now effectively, expendable!

Through snow-covered pastures, the Impresario drives the carriage. Inside Horatio sits next to the caged chicken, eyeing it nervously as it watches him. The Impresario finally stops the carriage at a bridge overlooking a small river. He gets out of the carriage and goes over to the side of the bridge. Horatio nervously watches him as he picks up a large stone and throws it down into the river below. A sizable splash is heard before the Impresario turns back to the carriage and Horatio. He approaches with a sly grin on his face but Horatio knows only too well, what is coming...

A little while later, we see the carriage rattling on wards towards the snow-topped mountains. However, as we look inside, we sadly see: that the caged chicken, is the Impresario's only passenger...

This third story comes to an end, and we now look at the fourth story of the book.

Story 4: ALL GOLD CANYON Colour Illustration: An old man hangs of the side of a tall pine tree, looking out at the horizon, and sweeping hills of the mountain valley that lie before him with the caption: "And in all that mighty sweep of earth he saw no sign of man nor the handiwork of man".

Our fourth story begins in a truly glorious and totally untouched mountain valley, complete with thick patches of forest and shrub and a large stream flowing down the center of the valley. All is peaceful, all is natural, until we begin to hear the out-of-tune, croaky voice of an old man, sounding out from the patch of forest that rests at the start of the valley. The singing (of an old Irish tune: 'Mother Machree') belongs to an elderly prospector, who leads a pack mule across the valley floor and over the stream to a hill, where he tethers the mule and takes a drink from the river. Up and down the stream, he vigorously begins to pan for gold. At one of the panning points, he sees that there are more gold specks there than at any of the others. So, he resolves to dig several holes at this point, proclaiming that he will find the gold seems buried there, as he refers to this apparent "Motherlode" as: "Mr. Pocket". He digs three large holes at this point on the hill, but only comes up with a few tiny nuggets of gold; not "Mr. Pocket"! He resolves to sleep on it, and find "Mr. Pocket" in the morning. He enjoys a small supper before going to sleep under the stars, looking forward to the next day and his continued search for "Mr. Pocket".

In the morning, while catching fish for his breakfast, the prospector spots a horned owl up in a tree with five, large eggs. He slowly clambers up the tree till he reaches the top and the owl's nest. He takes all five eggs and puts them in his satchel however, he happens to see the owl on another tree, looking down at him. The prospector feels sorry for the terrified owl mother, and kindly decides to replace four of the five eggs he took. He clambers back down the tree, and cooks the egg and fish for his breakfast. He then returns to his dig site and continues digging in the hole that has yielded the largest gold chunks. As he continues to dig, the gold nuggets get larger and larger until finally, the prospector reaches the fat gold seam that he's been looking for: "Mr. Pocket"! The old man is happy beyond words and prepares to dig up the gold when suddenly, a shadow falls over him: a young man aiming a pistol, stands over the prospector. The grizzled old prospector knows that he's been tracked by a scavenger but before he can react, the young coward shoots him in the back! He falls down into the hole as his wound begins to leak blood across the back of his shirt...

The young man sits back on the edge of the hole, making sure the prospector's dead and rolling himself a cigarette. He takes a drag and puts it out before getting down into the hole and preparing to mine the seams. However, the prospector is not dead! He quickly turns over and begins a desperate struggle with the young man. He manages to wrestle the coward's gun away from him, and blasts him three time in the face! The young man now lies in the hole dead! The prospector is beside himself with fury but goes straight to the river, where he rinses his wound and checks its severity: luckily, it's just a flesh wound. He promptly returns to the hole and finally, mines "Mr. Pocket". He takes the nuggets and stores them in his satchel before burying the young scavenger and filling-in his other digging holes. He goes back to his mule and sets off once again, singing 'Mother Machree', though neither him nor the landscape are quite the same as they were at the beginning of the story...

As this fourth story comes to an end, we now look at the penultimate story of the book.

Story 5: THE GAL WHO GOT RATTLED Colour Illustration: A tall cowboy walks over a hill and towards a wagon train with a rifle over his shoulder and a barking dog at his heels. Another cowboy on a horse is riding up towards him, and the caption reads: "Mr. Arthur had no idea what he would say to Billy Knap".

This penultimate story begins in the dining room of a boarding house. A young woman named Alice Longabaugh, her brother Gilbert, Gilbert's dog and several others enjoy dinner together as Gilbert discusses with the table, his and his sister's traveling plans: they are both traveling as part of a wagon train to Oregon where Gilbert has arranged for Alice to marry a business partner of his.

Several days later, we observe the wagon train as it makes its way across the rough frontier towards Oregon. Gilbert's dog is an almost constant nuisance throughout the journey, but Gilbert is blissfully ignorant of President Pierce's near-constant barking. However, tragedy soon strikes as Gilbert abruptly passes away from what appears to be cholera. Alice, along with the help of two of the guides: Mr. Arthur and Billy Knap, buries her brother as the train continues towards its destination. Alice too decides to continue the trip rather than return East. However Matt, the drover of Alice's wagon, claims that the deceased Gilbert promised him $400, half of which he expects when they reach the halfway point at Fort Laramie, otherwise he'll return home. Fearing Gilbert's money was buried with him, Alice conveys her dire situation to Billy Knap, who offers his support in contemplating how to proceed. He also does Alice the favor of attempting to shoot President Pierce. However, he bungles the job and the dog runs off onto the plains.

Through the course of their conversations, Billy grows fond of Alice, and proposes to solve her dilemmas by marrying her in Fort Laramie, assuming Gilbert's debt to Matt, and retiring from leading wagon trains to build a home and family with her upon 640 acres in Oregon which he can claim according to the 'Homestead Act'. Alice is surprised by Billy's proposal, but she has grown fond of him, so she accepts. Billy then informs Mr. Arthur that this will be their last ride together.

The following morning, Mr. Arthur notices Alice missing, and rides over the hills to find her reunited with President Pierce and laughing as the dog barks at the antics of some prairie dogs. However, to his horror, Mr. Arthur spots an advancing Sioux war sentinel. He attempts to make peace signs but his signs are not reciprocated. He realizes that he and Alice will have to make a stand since the ground is riddled with prairie dog holes and would surely trip up the horse. However, he also states to Alice that such holes are just as bad for the Indian riders, as they are for him and her. He then makes a fort using his saddle, brings out his Winchester rifle and arms Alice with a pistol, so that if he's killed, she can shoot herself before she's captured by the Sioux warriors. Mr. Arthur then readies himself as the Indians begin to charge them. He opens fire as soon as they get in range, de-horsing several. However, a couple of riders are taken out as their horses fall on the prairie dog holes. As the Indians amass for a second attack, Mr. Arthur tells Alice that if he can take out their Chief, they may abandon their attack. He cocks his rifle and prepares for this final charge, summarizing: "This'll tell the tale!" He fires again, aiming for the Chief, however, the Chief's horse is suddenly thrown by a prairie hole and Chief goes sprawling on the ground. As expected, the Indians retreat after their Chief's downfall however, one Indian has survived the charges and clubs Mr. Arthur on the side of the head. He approaches Mr. Arthur and prepares to scalp him when Mr. Arthur suddenly pulls out a hidden pistol and blasts the Indian in the face. He then rises and returns to Alice. However, Alice has tragically done just as Mr. Arthur commanded and has shot herself in the head; to Alice, it looked like Mr. Arthur had died when the Indian had clubbed him! Mr. Arthur is heartbroken at such a pointless waste of life, and he heads off for the wagon train, casually blasting a wounded Indian as he walks! He returns to the train and is promptly greeted by a horsed Billy Knap, and gravely prepares to break the bad news as he's followed by a barking President Pierce...

After this fifth story, we now look at the sixth and final story of 'THE BALLAD OF BUSTER SCRUGGS'.

Story 6: THE MORTAL REMAINS Colour Illustration: A moonlit stagecoach charges on wards through dark forest as we look up at the cloaked and masked driver, and the final caption that reads: "Wether or not he heard, the coachman did not slow".

This final story begins at sunset, as five people, an Englishman named Thigpen, an Irishman named Clarence, a Frenchman named René, an elderly lady named Mrs. Betjeman and a grizzled fur trapper ride to Fort Morgan, Colorado in a stagecoach. Thigpen says that he and Clarence often travel this route "ferrying cargo", alluding to a corpse on the roof, but he does not specify the nature of their business.

The Trapper rambles about his past relationship with a Native woman in which neither knew the other's language, but communicating through understanding each other's emotions led him to conclude that people are all alike in their basic needs, just like the animals he traps. Mrs. Betjeman, a devout Christian, indignantly rebuts that there are two kinds of people, upright and sinning, and explains that she knows this because her husband, whom she's traveling to meet after having been apart for three years, is a retired Chautauqua lecturer on "moral and spiritual hygiene." René challenges her dichotomy and the trapper's oversimplification with reflections on the unique and subjective nature of human experiences. As an example, René questions whether Mr. Betjeman conceives of love the same way Mrs. Betjeman does, conjecturing that if he doesn't, perhaps he has not remained faithful to her during their separation.

Mrs. Betjamen becomes apoplectic, and René calls out the window for the coachman to stop, but the driver doesn't halt. Thigpen explains that it is the driver's policy not to stop for any reason. Clarence sings the bittersweet folk song "The Unfortunate Lad", which calms Mrs. Betjamen. He and Thigpen then reveal themselves to be "reapers" or bounty hunters. Thigpen tells the group that their usual method is for him to distract a target with stories (like "The Midnight Caller") while Clarence "thumps" them. Thigpen remarks that he enjoys watching their prey die, especially the expression in their eyes as they "negotiate the passage" and "try to make sense of it."

The other three are visibly unsettled by this as they arrive at the foreboding hotel in Fort Morgan where they will all be staying. They remain in the stagecoach while Thigpen and Clarence carry the corpse into the hotel, then slowly dismount and warily make their own way inside...

Our leather bound book finally closes, as we finish these six tales of both good and evil on the American Frontier.