Lord Voldemort, an evil and powerful dark wizard, has just been defeated. When he tried to kill a one-year-old boy, Harry Potter, the killing curse rebounded upon him, destroying his body. Harry is left an orphan with a lightning-bolt scar on his forehead, Voldemort having killed his parents, Lily and James Potter. Professors Dumbledore and McGonagall and Gamekeeper Hagrid leave him on the doorstep of his ultra-conventional, insensitive, negligent Muggle (non-magical) relatives, the Dursley family, who take him in. Harry's relatives decide to conceal his magical heritage from him and make him live in a cupboard under the stairs for ten years. Shortly before Harry's eleventh birthday, he receives a letter addressed specifically to him. His outraged uncle, however, reads and burns it before Harry has a chance to look at the contents. The sender does not give up, and the Dursleys receive successively larger numbers of the same correspondence. Soon, his Uncle Vernon becomes so paranoid that the Dursleys, with Harry in tow, hide in a hut on a small island to escape. That night (which happens to be before Harry's birthday), he is visited by an enormous man named Hagrid who bursts through the locked door of the hut. With Hagrid holding the Dursleys at bay, Harry finally reads his letter, in which he learns he has been invited to study magic at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The next day Harry and Hagrid head to Diagon Alley in London (the secret magical location hidden behind the famous wizarding pub The Leaky Cauldron). Harry enters the wizarding world for the first time, learns to his surprise that he is famous, and meets the new Hogwarts Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Quirrell. Hagrid takes Harry to Gringott's Bank, where Harry learns that he is quite wealthy. Following this, Hagrid stops at a different vault to retrieve a small, wrapped parcel for Dumbledore. Using his newfound money, Harry buys everything he requires for his first school year, including and owl, and a wand. Interestingly, the wand that chooses him is the brother wand of the one that was used to kill Harry's parents and give him the scar. He then takes the train to Hogwarts from Platform Nine and three-quarters, befriending Ron Weasley, and meeting Hermione Granger, a Muggle-born witch. Upon arrival, the Sorting Hat places Harry, Ron and Hermione in Gryffindor House. Draco Malfoy, an arrogant and elitist student, gets placed in Slytherin. At the end of their first week at Hogwarts, Harry and Ron discover that Gringotts, the wizarding bank, was broken into and a vault that Harry and Hagrid visited had been the subject of the robbery. Later, Harry discovers he has a talent for riding broomsticks, and after an incident with Malfoy, is recruited to join Gryffindor's Quidditch team as a Seeker, much to Malfoy's displeasure. Harry, Ron, Hermione explore Hogwarts late at night and accidentally stumble across the door to a corridor. A three-headed dog, christened Fluffy by Hagrid, guards a trapdoor. On Halloween, Quirrell informs everyone that a troll has entered the castle; Harry and Ron fight the troll to save Hermione, who is trapped in the girls' bathroom, and the three become best friends. At Harry's first Quidditch match, Harry's broom becomes possessed, nearly knocking him off. Hermione sees Professor Severus Snape, the sinister Potions master and head of Slytherin House, staring at Harry and mouthing words, making her believe that Snape has caused the broom to misbehave with a dark curse. Hoping to save Harry, Hermione sets Snape's robes on fire, distracting him and others and allowing Harry to survive. At Christmas, Harry receives an Invisibility Cloak, once belonging to his father, which renders its wearer invisible. Harry uses it to explore the Restricted Section in the library to research information on Nicolas Flamel, a name Hagrid lets slip when confronted about his knowledge of Fluffy. Eventually, Harry learns that "Nicolas Flamel is the only known maker of the Sorcerer's Stone, which produces the Elixir of Life which will make the drinker immortal."  Harry sees Snape trying to get information from Quirrell about getting past Fluffy; Quirrell says he does not know what he's talking about. Harry, Ron, and Hermione are sure that Snape is trying to steal the Philosopher's Stone in order to restore Lord Voldemort to power, but Hagrid denies it. While at Hagrid's hut, the trio discover a dragon egg Hagrid was nursing in a fire. Later the egg hatches a Norwegian Ridgeback dragon, and Hagrid decides to call him "Norbert". The friends are nervous for Hagrid, since dragon breeding had long been outlawed in the wizarding world, and Hagrid had something of a reckless nature, who has long since nursed a strong desire for a dragon. Finally, Harry, Ron, and Hermione are able to convince Hagrid to let Norbert go live with other dragons of his kind in Romania. Harry, Hermione, Ron and Draco are caught out late at night, and are forced to serve detention with Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest. Harry sees a hooded figure drink the blood of an injured unicorn, which makes Harry's forehead scar start burning. Firenze, a centaur, tells Harry that it is a monstrous thing to slay a unicorn, let alone drink its blood. He also tells Harry that unicorn blood will keep one alive, and that the hooded figure is in fact Voldemort. Harry, Hermione and Ron find out that Hagrid has told a hooded stranger how to get past Fluffy, and they believe the theft of the Stone is imminent. Rushing to finally confide in Professor Dumbledore their news, they meet Professor McGonagall, who is shocked to find out how much they knew about the Stone, but reassures them all the same that it is safe in the castle. She also tells them that Dumbledore has been sent away on an important mission by the Ministry of Magic. Positive that Dumbledore's summons was a red herring to take Professor Dumbledore away from Hogwarts, the trio make plans to thwart Snape's theft of the stone. They set out to reach the stone first, navigating the security system set up by the school's staff, which is a series of complex magical challenges. The three make it through together until finally, Harry must enter the inner chamber alone. There he finds that Professor Quirrell, not Snape, is attempting to steal the Stone. Realizing that Snape was trying to protect him from harm all along, Harry confronts Quirrell and survives a second encounter with Lord Voldemort, who has possessed Quirrell and appears as a ghastly face on the back of Quirrell's head. Quirrell crumbles when he touches Harry's skin, and Harry passes out because of his close proximity to Lord Voldemort. Voldemort then pitilessly abandons Quirrell, who dies in the aftermath of his possession. Harry wakes up in the hospital wing. Dumbledore reveals to Harry that Harry's mother died to protect Harry as an infant. Her pure, loving sacrifice provides Harry with an ancient magical protection from Voldemort's lethal spells and also prevents Voldemort from touching Harry without suffering terribly. Dumbledore also says that the Sorcerer's Stone has been destroyed to prevent future attempts by Voldemort to steal it. Finally, at the end-of-year feast, the House Points totals are given: Gryffindor is in last place. However, Dumbledore gives a few "last-minute additions", granting points to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Neville for their bravery and service towards school, so that Gryffindor wins the House Cup. While home with the Dursleys for the summer, Harry Potter is not getting any mail from his friends, Ron and Hermione. On his twelfth birthday Harry is visited by Dobby, a house-elf, who warns Harry that he will be in mortal danger if he returns to Hogwarts. Harry ignores Dobby's warning and is determined to return. It turns out that Dobby has been collecting Harry's letters to make it seem as though his friends had forgotten him, hoping Harry might then not want to return to Hogwarts. Seeing that he will have to use force, Dobby decides to destroy, by the use of a charm, a large cake that Aunt Petunia has baked for an important dinner party attended by Vernon Dursley's boss and his wife. Harry is blamed by the Ministry of Magic for Dobby's charm, and is told that if he does magic outside school again, he will be expelled. On learning that Harry cannot perform magic outside school, the Dursleys, previously fearful of his wizarding, lock Harrys books and wand away and Vernon Dursley fits bars onto his bedroom window, making Harry a prisoner. A few days later, Fred, George and Ron Weasley come to his rescue in their father's enchanted Ford Anglia. After a pleasant summer together in the Weasley house, everyone heads to Platform 9 to take the Hogwarts Express back to school. To their shock, Harry and Ron are unable to enter the barrier between platforms 9 and 10. In desperation, they fly to Hogwarts in the car, crashing into the Whomping Willow and damaging Ron's wand. The semi-sentient car ejects them and their belongings and disappears into the Forbidden Forest. Harry soon finds he is the unwanted centre of attention of three people: the vain new Defense Against the Dark Arts Professor, Gilderoy Lockhart, admirer Colin Creevey, and Ron's sister, Ginny Weasley, who fancies Harry. Events take a turn for the worse when the Chamber of Secrets is opened and a monster stalks the castle, with the power literally to petrify several students. According to legend, the Chamber was built by Salazar Slytherin and can only be opened by his heir, in order to purge Hogwarts of students who are not pure-blood wizards. Many suspect Harry is the Heir of Slytherin, especially after he inadvertently speaks Parseltongue (the language of snakes), a rare ability Harry gained after Voldemort's murderous attack upon him when he was an infant. Harry, Ron, and Hermione attempt to discover the Heir of Slytherin's true identity. Using Polyjuice Potion brewed by Hermione, they disguise themselves as Slytherin students, Crabbe and Goyle, hoping to learn from Draco Malfoy the identity of the Heir. Malfoy, they learn, does not know who the Heir of Slytherin is, but he inadvertently provides Harry and Ron with an important clue about the Chamber of Secrets. Unfortunately, the hair that Hermione took from Millicent Bullstrode's uniform was from a cat, and as the polyjuice potion is only intended for human transformations she assumes a feline appearance; it takes a little more than a month to restore her normal human form. She is released from the hospital wing in early February, her normal appearance restored. The attacks increase throughout the year, petrifying more students, including Hermione. Most horribly, a message written on a wall declares that Ginny Weasley has been taken into the Chamber, where "her skeleton will lie forever". With the help of Ron and Moaning Myrtle, Harry discovers the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets. They force Gilderoy Lockhart, a fraud who wipes clean other wizards' memories and claims their achievements, to go with them. Once they find the entrance to the Chamber, Lockhart attempts to use Ron's broken wand to erase Harry and Ron's memories, but the spell backfires on to himself and brings the ceiling caving in, separating Harry from Ron and Lockhart. Lockhart revives, but has now lost his own memory. Harry makes it to the Chamber where he finds an unconscious Ginny. He also meets a young man named Tom Riddle, who claims to be a "memory". Harry learns that Ginny, under the control of Lord Voldemort, opened the Chamber. Voldemort, whose real name is Tom Marvolo Riddle (the anagram of which is "I am Lord Voldemort"), imprinted his memory in an enchanted diary, in order to one day continue the work he began when he reopened the Chamber fifty years ago ridding Hogwarts of non-pureblood witches and wizards. It was Hagrid, a Hogwarts student at the time, who was blamed for the attacks and expelled. Tom Riddle's memory grows more powerful as it steals life from Ginny's body, and it tries to kill Harry by setting loose a basilisk (the monster responsible for petrifying the students). But Dumbledore's phoenix, Fawkes, arrives carrying the Sorting Hat, from which Harry draws out the sword of Godric Gryffindor. Fawkes blinds the basilisk, destroying its fatal gaze, and Harry slays it with the sword. In attempting to slay the basilisk Harry's arm has been pierced by the creature's fang. Harry stabs the diary with one of the basilisk's fangs, and the memory of Riddle is destroyed, while Ginny revives from her near-death state. Harry seems to be dying quickly from the venom but Fawkes comes to heal Harry with his tears (phoenix tears have healing power). Ginny and Harry both recover fully, along with those who were petrified: Hermione, Mrs Norris, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Nearly Headless Nick, and Colin Creevey. Harry realizes it was Lucius Malfoy, Draco Malfoy's father, who slipped the diary into Ginny's cauldron when he encountered the Weasleys in a Diagon Alley bookshop, but he is unable to prove it. Dobby reveals he is the Malfoys' servant, and knowing their treachery, had been trying to protect Harry all year. In gratitude, Harry sticks one of his old socks into the diary and hands it to Lucius. Lucius throws away the diary, but Dobby catches it and finds the sock hidden in its pages. This constitutes, in Dobby's eyes, a gift of clothing the traditional manner in which a master frees a house-elf from servitude. The freed Dobby declares he is eternally grateful to Harry and protects him from an attempted reprisal from Lucius. The word "Avada" is used as the beginning of Lucius Malfoy's curse, suggesting that it is the Avada Kedavra (the killing curse). Dumbledore dispels Harry's fears that he could have been put into Slytherin rather than into Gryffindor when he tells Harry that it is his choices that define him and not his abilities, and that Harry could not have wielded the sword of Gryffindor if he did not truly belong to that house. It opens at the Dursleys' home where Harry Potter lives and is staying, as usual, during the summer holidays. Uncle Vernon's sister Marge comes to visit and treats Harry with general contempt. She viciously insults him and his parents, angering Harry who unwittingly uses his innate magical powers to cause her to inflate, and float off, out of the Dursleys' house and into the twilight. Harry flees the Dursleys' home, furious. At first he walks with determination but soon grinds to a stop as he realizes he hasn't anywhere to go. He sits down at the edge of the road with his trunk. His surroundings stir as the wind picks up and a street lamp flickers above him. A jet black dog emerges from the bushes opposite, growling at him and he raises his wand. At that instant however, the eccentric Knight Bus, for lost witches or wizards, makes a sharp appearance and escorts Harry on a wacky journey to the wizards' pub 'The Leaky Cauldron.' While there, Harry learns that Sirius Black, an alleged supporter of Lord Voldemort, the dark wizard, has escaped from Azkaban prison. Harry must meet the Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge and he fears expulsion from Hogwarts for his using of under-age magic out of school. However, the matter is surprisingly dropped as "...the Ministry doesn't send students to Azkaban for blowing up their aunts." While at The Leaky Cauldron Harry also reconvenes with his two best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, and the rest of the Weasley family. Mr. Arthur Weasley pulls Harry to one side to warn him about Sirius Black. He suggests that Harry needs to be cautious of Sirius Black due to his allegiance with Voldemort. He believes that Harry is the only thing which stands in the way of Voldemort returning to power and that it is on this premise that Sirius Black has escaped from Azkaban. To find and kill Harry Potter. Harry, Ron and Hermione board the train to Hogwarts, discovering in their compartment the sleeping Professor Remus Lupin who is to be the new 'Defence Against the Dark Arts' teacher. Harry airs his concerns about Black's escape and his possible objective to Ron and Hermione. Tension builds during their discussion however as the train is stopped on a bridge and the lights pop out in each cabin. Ron peers out of the window, concerned that "...there is something out there." The train is violently jolted and a great cold descends around them, ice creeping over the windows. In the corridor outside, a scary dark creature slowly appears, floating towards them. It opens the door to their cabin and begins to engage frighteningly with Harry, sucking at his whole body. The sleeping teacher suddenly wakes, stands up, and repels the creature with a very bright white light emanating from his wand. Harry faints. On his coming round Lupin gives him chocolate to eat and explains that the creature is a 'Dementor' which drains happiness from anything it approaches. The Dementors ordinarily guard the wizard prison, 'The Prison of Azkaban' but are out searching for the escapee Black, and entered the train looking for him. Harry heard a woman screaming during the ordeal, but no one else heard it. As Harry begins his third year at Hogwarts we learn of some significant changes. Alongside the official announcement of the formerly encountered, new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Lupin. Rubeus Hagrid, the groundsman, becomes additionally a professor of 'Care of Magical Creatures.' Also, Hermione seems to be taking nearly twice as many classes as everyone else, including some which are taught simultaneously. During a Divination class, Professor Trelawney foresees Harry's death in the tealeaves of his cup, which form the shape of a 'Grim' or large dog. In tealeaf reading this symbolises death. In Hagrid's first class, Draco Malfoy deliberately provokes Buckbeak, a Hippogriff, into attacking and injuring him. Draco's father, Lucius Malfoy, a powerful Ministry of Magic member of staff, files an official complaint. In Defence Against the Dark Arts, Professor Lupin instructs the class in the defeat of a Boggart, which changes its form to appear as one's greatest fear. When Harry steps up, it manifests itself as a Dementor, however Lupin steps in to defeat it before Harry gets the chance. Harry is told he can't go on the school outings to Hogsmeade, a local village inhabited solely by magical beings, as he hasn't got his admission slip signed, and watches his friends go without him. Instead, he meets with Lupin, and Harry discovers that the reason he wasn't allowed to fight the Boggart was that Lupin had been worried it would take the shape of Voldemort. This concern catches Harry by surprise, because Harry had been thinking even more fearfully about the Dementors. Later that night, Sirius Black breaks into Hogwarts and destroys the Fat Lady's portrait that guards Gryffindor Tower. The students spend the night sleeping in the Great Hall while the teachers search the castle for Black. Because Black is believed at large in the castle Dementors are sent specifically to patrol the perimeter of Hogwarts. Next day, Professor Snape replaces Lupin as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher while Lupin is intriguingly "...incapable of teaching at the present time." In an odd divergence from routine, he teaches the class about Werewolves. During the next school Quidditch match, a popular wizard sport, several Dementors approach and try to engage their powers over Harry, causing him to faint and fall off his broomstick. Dumbledore breaks Harry's fall, but his broomstick flies off into the magical tree, the 'Whomping Willow' and is destroyed. Dumbledore is angry that the Dementors came within school grounds as they are prohibited from doing so. Harry wonders why the Dementors seem to have a special interest in him and Lupin reveals that this is due to the horrors within Harry's past. Harry considers that he needs to know how to defend himself against them and convinces Lupin as such, who agrees to teach him. At the time of the next school outing, still keen to go to Hogsmeade, Harry attempts to sneak into the village under his Invisibility Cloak, but is caught by Fred and George Weasley, who give him the Marauder's Map. It is a map of the entire school and shows the real-time locations of everyone on the grounds. Fred and George also tell Harry that the map shows the whereabouts of several secret passages out of Hogwarts, ideal for leaving undetected. Once in Hogsmeade village, and back under his Invisibility Cloak, Harry catches sight of the Minister Fudge and Professor Minerva McGonagall chatting in the street, discussing Black and himself. He follows them as they go inside and is shocked to overhear that Sirius Black was his parents' best friend and is still his godfather and a legal guardian. Black supposedly divulged the Potter's secret whereabouts to Lord Voldemort and murdered their friend Peter Pettigrew, as well as twelve Muggle bystanders (non-magic humans). Harry vows to kill Black. On returning from the outing we find out from Hagrid that as a consequence of Lucuis Malfoy's complaint, Buckbeak has been sentenced to death. That same night, after hours, Harry is astonished when he sees the aforementioned Peter Pettigrew's name on the Marauder's Map. He goes looking for him but can't find him. After Professor Snape discovers Harry out of bed, the map is confiscated by Lupin who meets them, and, covering for Harry, tells Snape it is merely a joke parchment and of no significance. Harry has the agreed private class with Lupin, in which he must generate a Patronus, a shield that is used to repel the Dementors. Lupin has him test himself out on a Boggart. He fails the first time, but conjures one on his second attempt. Later on, returning to a recently finished Divinations class to bring back a crystal ball knocked over by Hermione, Harry reencounters Professor Trelawney. She grabs Harry by the shoulder, speaks as though possessed, and predicts that "...the Dark Lord's servant will return to him that night and that innocent blood shall be spilled." When Harry, Ron and Hermione learn that Buckbeak is to be executed, they visit Hagrid in his hut to console him. On the way Draco taunts them about it and Hermione punches him in the face. While there, Hagrid says they cannot remain with him during the execution and that Buckbeak can't be set free, since the officials would know it was Hagrid. Hagrid has also found Ron's lost rat Scabbers, and returns him to Ron. Ron had wrongly believed that his rat had been eaten by Hermione's cat. As the execution party approaches the hut, stones fly in through the window and they leave and run back to the edge of the castle, watching the execution from afar. Scabbers then bites Ron, who chases after him, finally collecting him under the Whomping Willow. The black dog makes another appearance and attacks Ron and drags him, along with Scabbers, into a hole at the tree's base. Harry and Hermione follow, finding a tunnel which leads them to the Shrieking Shack. Inside, in a fast moving scene, Harry finally confronts Sirius Black who he has been led to believe wishes to kill him, and whom he wishes to kill. We discover that as an illegal Animagus, Black can transform into animal at will, thus he is also the infamous black dog. Professor Lupin, who had spotted the group on the confiscated Marauder's Map, suddenly bursts in and embraces his old friend Black. Confronted by Hermione, Lupin admits to being a werewolf. Lupin and Black then explain that Black is not the one who betrayed the Potters, rather it was Peter Pettigrew, who has been hiding for twelve years in his Animagus form as Scabbers, Ron's rat. He is Voldemort's servant, not Black, and he framed Black for his crimes. Meanwhile Snape bursts in also confronting Black but is disposed of by Harry. Harry is skeptical of the story until Black and Lupin force Pettigrew back into his human form, and after some squealing resistance Pettigrew finally confesses that it is true, proving Black's innocence. Black further clears up the misunderstanding by explaining, that on discovering Pettigrew was still alive, he escaped Azkaban in order to kill him. As Lupin and Black are about to kill Pettigrew, Harry stops them, and showing Pettigrew mercy, tells him they will take him back to the castle, where he can be left for the Dementors. As the group heads back to the castle, Harry and Sirius pause and chat optimistically. Harry remarks that Pettigrew would have been of no use dead. Firstly he didn't want his father's two best friends to be killers, and secondly he is the key in proving Sirius's innocence. Sirius suggests Harry comes to live with him. They are disturbed however, when, as the full moon rises, it causes Lupin to turn into the dangerous werewolf since he had neglected to take his potion which inhibits this transformation. Black responds by transforming again into the black dog in order to protect Harry, Ron and Hermione. The werewolf and Black have a vicious fight. During the ensuing commotion, Pettigrew transforms himself back into the rat and escapes, not pursued. Harry runs forward in his angst at Sirius's torture at the hands of the werewolf, inadvertently attracting its attention. However while approaching Harry, it is distracted by some other distant werewolf cry. Meanwhile, Sirius, badly injured, has moved down to the nearby lake where he lies at the edge. Harry follows and kneels over him. As he does so, a swarm of Dementors approaches them. Harry produces a Patronus to try and fend them off, however it is not nearly strong enough and they both begin to submit to the Dementors. Then on the other side of the river appears the brilliant white symbol of a stag and an immense Patronus which drives the Dementors away. Harry faints. Harry awakens in the hospital wing to hear the news, that Sirius Black has been captured and is about to be given the Dementor's Kiss, to suck out his soul. Dumbledore enters and Harry, Ron and Hermione try and convince him of Black's innocence. Dumbledore somehow already knows, but says that their word alone won't be believed. However, he suggests mysteriously, that Harry and Hermione travel in time back by using Hermione's time-turning device (we now find out how she has been attending simultaneous classes), and at least save both Black and Buckbeak from their fates. Hermione turns her hour-glass necklace back three turns, and Harry and Hermione are together thrust into the past, where they observe and remould the evenings events. They throw stones through the window of Hagrid's hut, alerting themselves of the approaching execution party. They rescue Buckbeak while the execution party is inside with Hagrid shortly before the execution, thus absolving Hagrid of any blame. Hermione diverts the attention of the werewolf Lupin stalking the past Harry with an imitation of another werewolf's cry. And, from a hiding place in the forest, Harry watches the Dementor sequence and realizes, as the stag symbol fails to appear, that he must have been the one who conjured the powerful Patronus. After saving his past self and Black from the Dementors, Harry and Hermione fly on Buckbeak's back to the tower, where Black is imprisoned, and rescue him. Harry and Black share a moment of contemplation, as since Black is going to be back on the run, still wanted and without proof of his innocence, their relationship will now be sadly fraught with complications and Harry's dream of living with his godfather is shattered. However, Harry takes comfort in knowing that Black, although still considered a fugitive, is at least free and safe for the time being. Black and Buckbeak leave, Black riding on his back. Harry and Hermione make it back to the hospital wing just as the timeline restores itself, and a reticent Dumbledore merrily bids them goodnight. As the school year end approaches, Lupin announces that he is resigning, believing that parents of the students would not be comfortable in the now open knowledge that he is a werewolf. He returns the Marauder's Map to Harry since he is no longer a professor. Harry later receives a gift from an unknown source, a Firebolt, an extremely fast racing broom. Hermione holds up a large feather, also contained within the parcel, confirming that Sirius must have sent it. Harry tries it out and is whisked away from sight, ending the film with the snapshot image of Harry flying his new broom, ecstatic. Harry, Ron and Hermione enter their fourth year at Hogwarts. After having a strange dream of the Dark Lord and his Death Eaters, Harry Potter awakes at the Weasleys' house where they shortly depart for the 422nd Quidditch World Cup. After the match, the camp is attacked by Death Eaters. The three later arrive at Hogwarts, where they find that the magical school will be hosting a legendary event called the Triwizard Tournament, in which one wizard each from two rival schools and Hogwarts will compete in three dangerous tasks. When the schools of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, the rival schools, arrive, the rules are announced. Meanwhile, Alastor "Mad Eye" Moody arrives at Hogwarts at the request of Dumbledore to be the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Moody is a very eccentric man, noted for his paranoia and his wildly roaming "mad eye". People over seventeen who are interested must insert their name into the Goblet of Fire, and those chosen will be the Champions of their respective school. Three champions' names come out of the Goblet of Fire, Cedric Diggory from Hogwarts, Viktor Krum from Durmstrang and Fleur Delacour from Beauxbatons, and then the goblet unexpectedly produces a fourth, Harry Potter, although he is an under-age fourth year who never entered. Although Harry insists that he did not enter his name, his selection prompts a certain amount of jealousy and suspicion on part of his fellow students - including Ron, who believes that Harry is attempting to make himself the centre of attention again. This causes a brief period of resentment and estrangement between the two friends (including Ron swearing, telling Harry to piss off!), which is soon healed, however. Dumbledore tells Alastor to keep an eye on Harry, without him knowing it. The Tournament begins with the first event, in which the four champions must each battle a dragon to retrieve a golden egg. Upon using the Accio spell to summon his broom, he flies out of the arena. The dragon breaks free of its chain and chases Harry through the Hogwarts grounds, where it runs into a stone bridge and falls dead. Harry gets the egg, which, when opened, will reveal a clue about the second task. When Harry opens it, though, only a horrible screeching is heard. They are soon informed of the Yule Ball, a Christmas ball held during the Triwizard Tournament. Ron and Harry find it hard to get dates to the ball, but finally get the Patil twins to join them, while Hermione goes with Viktor Krum, stunning everyone with her suddenly beautiful appearance at the ball. Ron is so jealously enraged at seeing Hermione with Krum (formerly his idol) that he attacks her and accuses her of "fraternizing with the enemy". The ensuing argument leaves Hermione in tears. Cedric Diggory, the other Hogwarts champion, informs Harry to submerge the egg in water and open it. There he will hear the clue. Harry does as told in the prefects' enormous collective bath. The clue mentions that merpeople have taken something of Harry's and that they must retrieve it from the Black Lake. Just as the three are trying to find a way to breathe underwater, Ron and Hermione are called to McGonagall's office. Neville tells Harry about gillyweed, which, if eaten, can let you grow webbed hands and feet and gills. During the second task, Harry follows a mermaid to where they have chained Ron, Hermione, Cho Chang, and Fleur's sister. Cho Chang is retrieved by Cedric, Victor, the Durmstrang champion, takes Hermione. Harry takes both Ron and Fleur's sister, since she did not show up. Finally, the third task arrives. A huge maze has been set up, in the center of which is the Triwizard Cup. The first to touch the cup wins the task. Dumbledore allows Harry and Cedric to be led into the woods first, because they both received first and second place in the previous task. Both Cedric and Harry grab the cup at the same time. The cup, which is actually a portkey, sends the two to a graveyard, where Wormtail appears with a form of Voldemort. Upon command, Wormtail kills Cedric and binds Harry to a tombstone. Wormtail performs a spell over a burning cauldron and drops Voldemort into it. A fully revived Voldemort emerges from it and summons the Death Eaters with the Dark Mark. After explaining to them how he lost his powers to Harry, he duels Harry Potter, in which their spells join in a chain. Harry breaks the chain and gets Cedric's body. After grabbing the cup again, he is transported back to the school where everyone learns that the Dark Lord is back and has killed Cedric. Mad-Eye Moody takes Harry to his office in order to help Harry calm down. Moody suddenly starts to change his appearance when he learns that he has run out of Polyjuice Potion. Moody tells Harry that it was he who told Hagrid to lead Harry into the woods and tell him about dragons. Moody also reveals that it was he who told Cedric to open the egg underwater and that he gave Neville the book that led him straight to discovering gillyweed in it. Harry realizes that Moody put his name in the Goblet of Fire and that he bewitched Krum. As Moody is about to kill Harry, Dumbledore, Snape, and McGonagall burst in the room and save Harry. Dumbledore makes Moody admit that he is an imposter and that the real Moody is locked in a chest. The imposter rapidly changes from appearing like Moody to his own appearance, Barty Crouch Jr, a Death Eater working for Voldemort. The tournament ends and the other schools depart. Harry Potter and his cousin Dudley Dursley are attacked by two Dementors, but Harry manages to drive the Dementors off with a Patronus charm. Shortly thereafter, the Ministry of Magic detect the act of underage wizardry and attempt to have Harry expelled from Hogwarts immediately, but this is modified to a trial later in the summer. After experiencing horrible nightmares depicting the evil Lord Voldemort's return, Harry is awoken by the arrival of an advance guard of wizards who escort him to the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, a secret organization founded by Dumbledore. It is only now that Harry discovers that under the Ministry's influence the newspaper The Daily Prophet has launched a smear campaign against anyone who claims that Voldemort has returned, leaving Harry feeling isolated and betrayed by the Wizarding community. Harry and the other members of the Order fly to 12 Grimmauld Place, the home of Sirius Black, where they meet with Sirius, Remus, Ron, Hermione and others. Later, Ron and Hermione express concern about Harry's situation with the Ministry. Harry and Arthur Weasley head to the court where Harry's trial will take place, briefly spotting Lucius Malfoy speaking with the minister on their way. With the help of Dumbledore and Harry's neighbour, Mrs Figg, Harry is cleared of all charges at the Ministry and is allowed to return to Hogwarts. However, during Harry, Ron and Hermione's fifth year at Hogwarts School, the Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge appoints a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Dolores Umbridge, a Senior Ministry official who refuses to teach practical magic to her students, as the Ministry fears Dumbledore will organize his own personal wizard army. One day during class, Harry is punished for claiming that Cedric Diggory was killed by Voldemort, which according to the Ministry's official policy is a lie. In Umbridge's office, Harry is forced to write "I must not tell lies" repeatedly as punishment. However, the sentence is magically imprinted on his hand instead, causing scarring. Meanwhile, as Umbridge's control over the school increases, Ron and Hermione aid Harry in forming a secret defence group, calling themselves "Dumbledore's Army" or DA for short. Harry, Ron and Hermione start teaching at Hogwarts, training students in defensive spells to become part of the Army. Draco Malfoy and other Slytherin students are then recruited by Umbridge to try to uncover the secretive group, creating the Inquisitorial Squad. Meanwhile, Harry officially begins a relationship with Cho, as they kiss one day after training. In an attempt to tighten her oppressive grip on Hogwarts, Umbridge dismisses Professor Sybill Trelawney and tries to have her banished from Hogwarts, which is only prevented after Dumbledore's intervention. Harry's nightmares continue, including a dangerous attack upon Arthur Weasley in the Department of Mysteries involving Nagini, Lord Voldemort's snake, which happens to turn true. Harry's anger starts to get out of control, as his mental connection to Voldemort grows stronger. Fearing Voldemort will exploit his connection with Harry, Dumbledore immediately instructs Professor Snape to give Harry a crash course on Occlumency lessons in an attempt to block Harry's mind from the Dark Lord's influence. Meanwhile, Bellatrix Lestrange escapes from Azkaban along with other Death Eaters after one of the prison walls is damaged by lightning flashes. At Hogwarts, Umbridge, Filch and her loyal Inquisitorial Squad, uncover Dumbledore's Army after interrogating one of the students, Cho Chang for whom Harry had developed intense feelings. Dumbledore is questioned and makes an impressive escape as Fudge orders his arrest. With Dumbledore gone, Umbridge becomes the new Headmistress, and her sinister dominance over the school continues. Later, Hagrid introduces Harry, Ron and Hermione to his half-brother giant, Grawp. Later, Harry reverses Snape's spell by glimpsing into Snape's mind. It is then that Harry learns that Harry's father used to bully Snape when they were students at Hogwarts, which appears to be the real cause behind Snape's resentment towards Harry. Meanwhile the Weasley twins, Fred and George formulate a plan of their own. During an O.W.L. exam, the Weasley twins execute their plan, launching a firework display in the great hall causing chaos for Umbridge, Fudge and the students of Slytherin house. As the students cheer joyously outside, Harry suffers a vision of Sirius trapped within the bowels of the Ministry being interrogated about the Order. Harry, Ron, and Hermione rush to search for Sirius, but Umbridge, soon after, catches the trio attempting to use the Floo Network, and begins interrogating Harry. She calls for Professor Snape to bring Veritaserum for use during her interrogation, as she has for all of her previous interrogations, but Snape tells her that the supply has been exhausted. Hermione then tricks Umbridge into entering the Forbidden Forest along with Harry and her in search of a faux weapon, really leading her to the hiding place of Grawp who has since freed himself from the tree he was latched to, when a herd of centaurs, who have their own issues with the Ministry, emerge and carry the Headmistress into the darkness. Hermione and Harry head back to Hogwarts to find Ron and other DA members, Luna Lovegood, Neville Longbottom, and Ginny Weasley, the group decided to fly to London by way of the Thestrals (winged horse-like magical creatures) to the Department of Mysteries of London City in an attempt to save Sirius. The six enter the Department of Mysteries, where they uncover a prophecy involving Harry and Voldemort, but are soon ambushed by Death Eaters, including Lucius Malfoy and Bellatrix Lestrange, Sirius's deranged cousin. After a brief battle and a failed escape attempt, the Death Eaters, manage to take Ron, Hermione, Luna, Neville, and Ginny as hostages threatening to kill them if Harry does not hand over the prophecy. Sirius appears, with the other members of the Order of the Phoenix, and attacks the Death Eaters causing Lucius to drop the prophecy, which then shatters. A battle erupts as the Death Eaters try to stop the students from escaping, resulting in Sirius's death at Bellatrix's hand. Back in the Atrium, Harry corners Bellatrix, where he struggles with his desire to enact the Cruciatus curse. Voldemort himself appears, ready to kill Harry when Dumbledore emerges to face his battle against Voldemort. A brief but furious duel between Voldemort and Dumbledore takes place, in which Bellatrix escapes through the Floo Network. When Voldemort disappears, and the battle seems over, Harry suddenly finds himself possessed by Voldemort -- recalling images of his past, of his family and his friends but throws off Voldemort's influence, stating that he is stronger than Voldemort through his friends and his ability to love. Ministry officials, including Fudge, hastily arrive via the Floo Network moments before Voldemort disappears. In the aftermath of the battle, the Ministry is forced to end their smear campaign and Umbridge is removed from Hogwarts, awaiting a formal investigation. Dumbledore explains that he had attempted to distance himself from Harry all year, hoping it would lessen the risk of Voldemort discovering and using the connection between the two. While the students head home from Hogwarts at the end of the academic year, Harry tells his friends that they have one thing Voldemort does not: love, a power worth fighting for. Scarred by his experience at the Ministry of Magic with Voldemort, Harry is reluctant to return to Hogwarts. Dumbledore encourages him to continue, after transporting him to see a former professor, Horace Slughorn, hoping that Slughorn would return to Hogwarts and take Harry under his wing. Meanwhile, Death Eaters begin to wreak havoc both towards Muggles, destroying the Millennium Bridge, and Wizards, kidnapping the wandmaker Mr. Ollivander and destroying his Diagon Alley shop. Bellatrix Lestrange entreats Severus Snape to enter an Unbreakable Vow with Draco Malfoy's mother, Narcissa, assuring that he will complete the task assigned to Draco should Draco fail and that he will protect him and make sure he doesn't get hurt. Harry, Ron and Hermione, while in Diagon Alley, spot Draco entering Borgin and Burkes and taking part in a ritual with other Death Eaters, and become suspicious of his actions. At Hogwarts, the school is under tight security to prevent the Death Eaters from entering the school. With Slughorn back to teach Potions, Snape is given Defense Against the Dark Arts. Harry and Ron are encouraged by Professor McGonagall to take up Potions now that Slughorn, with lower standards, is teaching the class; however, as neither was expecting to take the course, they have to find textbooks for themselves in the bookcase. Harry's book is annotated with more exact instructions to complete potions, giving him an edge over the other students; he finds that it once belonged to the "Half-Blood Prince", a term Hermione cannot figure out. Meanwhile, Ron becomes the successful Gryffindor's Quidditch goalie, attracting the love of Lavender Brown, much to Hermione's chagrin. Harry is also upset over Ginny's attraction to Dean Thomas. During the Christmas Break while Harry and Ron are at the Burrow, the Death Eaters with Bellatrix in charge come intending to kidnap Harry, but are forced to retreat after they are outnumbered by Order of the Phoenix members. Before they leave they set fire to the Burrow, and the Weasleys are gathered outside the house, leaving Harry regretting the evil that he has brought down upon people he cares about. Dumbledore reveals to Harry through the Pensieve memories of Tom Riddle (Voldemort's original name), including a false memory from Slughorn, when Riddle asked him about a certain restricted Dark Art. The memory fails to reveal this art, and Dumbledore believes that the key to defeating Voldemort is to learn what Dark Art Riddle asked about, and instructs Harry to further confide himself to Slughorn. Using a Luck potion he won earlier in the school year, Harry is able to bring Slughorn to be intoxicated with Hagrid and convinces the professor in his stupor to give him the true memory. This memory reveals that Riddle inquired about the creation of Horcruxes, devices that store a portion of the creator's soul to allow them to live indefinitely. Dumbledore reveals that Riddle's diary and his mother's ring were two of seven Horcruxes that Riddle had created, and that they must track these down and destroy them to make Voldemort mortal. Meanwhile, Harry continues to be suspicious of Draco's actions, following him around the school but no success in determining what he seeks. Harry believes Draco to be behind two indirect attempts on Dumbledore's life, one through a cursed necklace that Katie Bell, under an Imperius Curse, was bringing to Dumbledore as a gift, and another through a bottle of poisoned wine that Slughorn, similarly cursed, planned to give to the professor. The latter is discovered accidently when Ron ingests the poison; though he recovers with medical treatment, he unconsciously mumbles Hermione's name in front of Lavender, sending her away crying. After this incident, Harry corners Draco in the toilets and after a short fight casts the Sectumsempra curse from the Half-Blood Prince's book, severely harming Draco. Snape arrives knowing that he let Draco get hurt and that he broke one of the promises and heals him. Ginny convinces Harry to hide the book in the Room of Requirement to prevent him from using it again; there, they discover, unknown to them, a Vanishing Cabinet, which Draco has been attempting to repair, but think nothing of it further. Ginny also reveals her love for Harry, and they kiss after she hides the book. Dumbledore implores Harry to help him recover another Horcrux, the location of which he recently learned. The two transport themselves to a seaside cliff, and enter a cave where the Horcrux is located. On a small crystalline island, Dumbledore forces Harry to make him drink a mind-altering liquid in order to reveal the Horcrux. While Dumbledore recovers from the liquid, Harry recovers the Horcrux, a small pendant. Harry tries to help Dumbledore recover, but they are attacked by numerous inferi. Dumbledore recovers in time to set them aflame, and the two return to the Astronomy Tower at Hogwarts. Dumbledore, still weakened by the trial, instructs Harry to go to get Snape. However, before Harry can go, footsteps are heard, and Dumbledore tells Harry to hide on the lower floor. The footsteps belong to Draco, who prepares to kill Dumbledore, but cannot bring himself to do so. Meanwhile, with the Vanishing Cabinet fixed, Bellatrix and other Death Eaters are able to invade Hogwarts through a similar cabinet at Borgin and Burkes, and join Draco in the tower. Snape silently arrives on the lower floor, indicating to Harry to stay quiet, and then goes upstairs, joining the other Death Eaters. Snape then casts the killing spell Avada Kedavra on Dumbledore, throwing him over the side of the Tower and killing him. Snape, Draco, and the other Death Eaters depart the school, Bellatrix casting the Death Eaters' sign over the school, destroying the Great Hall and setting fire to Hagrid's hut in glee. Harry tries to stop them with the Sectumsempra spell, but Snape deflects it and stuns him. As he departs, he explains to Harry that he is the Half-Blood Prince and the creator of the spell. Harry returns to the school to find the staff and students mourning over Dumbledore's death. Harry walks over to Dumbledore's body lying in front of them, grieving as Ginny comforts him. When he returns to the late headmaster's office one last time, McGonagall confronts him and asks him to open up to her, but he does not comply and leaves. A portrait of Dumbledore can be seen hanging on a wall behind them. Harry reveals to Ron and Hermione that the Horcrux they got was a fake, containing a message from an "R.A.B." that stated he had already taken it, but is also seeking to end Voldemort's life. Harry tells his friends that he does not plan to return next year, instead seeking out R.A.B. and the other Horcruxes so that he may put an end to Voldemort; Ron and Hermione remind Harry that they are his friends and will help alongside him in his goal. The film begins with Harry Potter and Hermione Granger starting their search for Voldemort's Horcruxes. Meanwhile, Severus Snape arrives at Malfoy Manor to tell Voldemort and the rest of his council that he's been appointed the new Headmaster of Hogwarts. He also tells them that the Order of the Phoenix will be moving Harry Potter from Privet Drive to a safe house. Voldemort uses Lucius Malfoy's wand to avoid using twin wands in a dueling battle. After Harry's 'family' The Dursleys flee their home, the Order of the Phoenix arrive to meet Harry along with six others: Ron Weasley, Hermione, Fred and George Weasley, Fleur Delacour and Mundungus Fletcher. They all take Polyjuice Potion to become Harry's doppelganger's. Harry and the six copies leave Privet Drive accompanied by a protector whilst the real Harry flies alongside Hagrid on his flying motorbike. They are intercepted almost immediately by Death Eaters and the pairs scatter. Voldemort arrives but Harry manages to defeat his borrowed wand and the group arrive safely at the Burrow. All but Mad-Eye Moody, who was killed by Voldemort and Mundungus, who disapparated when he saw Voldemort arrive. George has a bad head wound from a curse Snape conjured during the battle. Ron convinces Harry to remain at the Burrow until after Bill and Fleur's wedding before going to find more horcruxes. Minister of Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour, arrives at the Burrow and distributes the items from Dumbledore's last will and testament to Ron, Hermione and Harry. Ron receives the Deluminator, Harry gets the missing sword of Gryffindor and the first Snitch he ever caught and Hermione gets a personal copy of "The Tales of Beetle the Bard". During the wedding, Harry sees Xenophilius Lovegood and notices a strange symbol on his necklace. Harry speaks to Elphius Doge, one of Dumbledore's oldest friends and Ron's Aunt Muriel and learns that Dumbledore used to live in Harry's hometown, Godric's Hollow. A Patronus message sent by Kingsley Shacklebolt appears and warns that the Ministry has fallen, Scrimgeour is dead and that 'they are coming'. Death Eaters appear and trash the ceremony, leading Ron, Harry and Hermione to apparate to London. Taking refuge in a cafe, they discuss their immediate plans but before they can leave two Death Eaters arrive and begin dueling. The trio win the battle and disapparate to Grimmauld Place where they discover that Regulus Arcturus Black (Sirius's younger brother) is the R.A.B in the false locket found at the end of Half-Blood Prince. Kreacher reveals that the real locket was in the house but Mundungus stole it when he looted Grimmauld Place. Harry sends Kreacher to get Mundungus who in turn explains that Dolores Umbridge took it from him in return for not revoking his peddler's licence. The trio decide to break into the Ministry, now under the eyes of Death Eaters to retrieve the locket. Harry, Ron and Hermione capture three Ministry workers and impersonate them to enter the secret Ministry offices but are quickly split up. Hermione ends up in a courtroom with Umbridge to witness a false trial, Ron is in Head of Magical Law Enforcement (Death Eater Yaxley's) office and Harry is free to wander the corridors since he unwittingly copied a Death Eater Runcorn. Harry eventually finds his way to Umbridge's office but doesn't find the locket so he makes his way to the courtroom alongside Ron. They reunite with Hermione and stun Umbridge to take the locket and attempt to leave the Ministry. However, their Polyjuice Potion begins to wear off and during the battle to Floo away, Yaxley catches them as they reach Grimmauld Place. Since they cannot safely stay at Grimmauld Place now Yaxley is a secret-keeper, Hermione apparates them to a forest. Ron gets splinched in the process, meaning the group can't apparate until he has recovered. They attempt to destroy the locket but their magic proves useless on it so they take turns wearing it despite its negative effects on their morale. While wearing it, Harry sees a vision of Voldemort interrogating and killing Gregorovitch the wand-maker and going off in search of a mysterious wizard said to have robbed his shop many years ago. As they apparate around the countryside to camp in secluded areas, Ron becomes increasingly suspicious that Harry and Hermione are becoming more than friends. While wearing the locket, Ron overhears Hermione discover that if they can find the sword of Gryffindor, they can destroy all of the Horcruxes. This realisation that they must find another thing in a location they don't know, coupled with his rising suspicion and resentment, drives Ron to leave the group and return home. Harry and Hermione are forced to teleport away, leaving Ron no way to return even if he wanted to. Hermione takes his exit badly so Harry dances to a radio with her to try and cheer her up but the romantic situation is too much for Hermione, making her revert back to sadness. Harry decides to visit Godric's Hollow, both because it would be the first time since Voldemort attacked him and because he wishes to meet Bethilda Bagshot, a magical historian who claimed to 'know the Dumbledores better than anyone'. They find the church graveyard and Hermione notices that a grave bearing the name 'Ignotus Peverell' has the same symbol on it as the one on Mr. Lovegood's necklace and in the book left for her by Dumbledore. Harry finds his parents' gravestones and an old woman approaches them as they pay their respects. Harry guesses that she is Bethilda and they follow her home. Harry sees a picture of the teenager from Gregorovitch's memory as Bethilda leads him to the attic of the house. Hermione wanders around downstairs. She finds signs of a bloody attack whilst the woman in front of Harry decomposes before his eyes into Voldemort's snake, Nagini. After a fight, Harry and Hermione escape with the only casualty being Harry's wand. Hermione says that the teen from the memory was Gellert Grindelwald. In the forest where they spend the night, Harry sees a Patronus doe watching over them and follows it to a frozen pond. He discovers the sword of Gryffindor at the bottom and as he swims down to get it, the locket goes crazy and attempts to drown him. Ron appears and saves him with Harry convincing Ron to destroy the locket with the sword. Harry opens it using Parseltongue. As it opens, a ghostly black cloud erupts from it whilst it shows Ron horrific images including spiders. A ghostly Harry tells Ron that Mrs. Weasley wanted him as a son whilst a ghostly Hermione mocks him, asking him why she'd choose him over the Chosen One before they begin kissing. Ron angrily attacks the locket, destroying it with the sword before he returns to the tent with Harry. Hermione is furious at Ron for leaving and returning as if nothing happened but the trio decide to visit Mr. Lovegood to find out about the mysterious symbol. At the Lovegood house, Mr. Lovegood teaches them about the Deathly Hallows - an invincible Elder Wand, a Resurrecting Stone and the invisibility cloak - and tells them the story of the three Peverell brothers who owned them all. When the group attempts to leave, Mr Lovegood reveals that Death Eaters have taken his daughter, Luna and that he must keep them there before they give her back. They escape the ensuing attack but apparate to a previous camping ground where a group of Snatchers are waiting to capture them and take them to the Ministry. Hermione uses a Stinging Hex on Harry's face to disfigure it but the Snatchers see the scar under the swelling. Instead, they take the trio to Malfoy Manor to collect the reward for Harry's capture. Since the Malfoys and Bellatrix Lestrange can't be sure the disfigured wizard is Harry, despite the fact he's travelling with Ron and Hermione, they refrain from summoning Voldemort until the swelling has gone down. However, Bellatrix sees the sword and believes it to be in her vault at Gringott's Bank. She imprisons Harry and Ron in a cellar where they find Luna, Ollivander, and a goblin. Bellatrix meanwhile brutally tortures Hermione to try to find out how they stole the sword. Wormtail takes the goblin upstairs to be interrogated, and Harry summons Dobby, who frees Luna and Ollivander before breaking Harry and Ron out. They go to rescue Hermione and the goblin, but despite winning the duels with Dobby's help - Harry manages to win Draco's wand and picks up Bellatrix' wand - Bellatrix throws a knife that stabs and kills Dobby as they disapparate. Harry gives Dobby a proper burial on the beach where they appear. The movie ends with Voldemort opening Dumbledore's tomb and taking the Elder Wand. After burying Dobby at the garden of the Shell cottage, Harry Potter convinces Griphook to help them get to Lestrange's vault in Gringotts, to retrieve one of Voldemort's Horcruxes in exchange for Godric Gryffindor's Sword. Meanwhile, Ollivander, the Wandmaker warns Harry that he won't stand a chance with Voldemort who has the Elder Wand. They arrived in Gringotts, Hermione disguised as Bellatrix, using a Polyjuice Potion, Ron disguised as a random wizard while Harry and Griphook go under the Invisibility Cloak. With the help of Imperius curse, they manage to get to the carts that take them down to the vaults, but when their cover is blown, Gringotts security attacks them. They manage to get to Lestrange's vault and find the Horcrux, Helga Hufflepuff's Cup, at which Griphook betrays them and flees with the sword yelling "Thieves! Thieves!" Harry grabs the Horcrux and the trio escape using a captive dragon. As they swim ashore of a lake, after jumping off the dragon, Harry has a vision about Voldemort receiving the news that the Horcrux was stolen. Harry sees that Voldemort is angry and scared. Voldemort kills the goblins, including Griphook, that bring him the news. Harry also sees that the next Horcrux is related to Rowena Ravenclaw, and is in Hogwarts castle. The three Apparate to Hogsmeade in hopes of sneaking into the school but a Caterwauling charm is set off that warns the Death Eaters of the trio's arrival. They are saved by Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus's brother, who Harry has seen through the mirror that he has. The trio use a passageway to Hogwarts provided by Aberforth, with Neville Longbottom leading the way. The group arrives at the Room of Requirement where Dumbledore's Army made a resistance from Snape's regime. As headmaster, Snape has turned Hogwarts into a lifeless prison. Harry confronts him in front of the entire school by saying, "How dare you stand where he stood. Tell them how it happened that night. How you looked him in the eye, a man who trusted you, and killed him" (referring to Albus Dumbledore). Minerva McGonagall intervenes and fights Severus, who flees to his master. Meanwhile, Voldemort has summoned his army and surrounds Hogwarts. McGonagall and the other Hogwarts staff made a barrier to keep the school safe from any attack. Hermione and Ron go to the Chamber of Secrets to get a basilisk fang (which can destroy Horcruxes), destroy Hufflepuff's Cup, and abruptly kiss. Harry, with the help of Rowena Ravenclaw's ghost daughter, Helena, finds out that the Ravenclaw Diadem was hidden, by Voldemort, in the Room of Requirement. He goes there, but is confronted by Malfoy and friends. When one of Malfoy's cohorts creates an unstoppable fire (and perishes due to it), Harry, Ron and Hermione rush to escape on brooms. They save Malfoy and his other friend on the way. They destroy the diadem using a basilisk fang. Voldemort uses the Elder Wand to destroy the shield around Hogwarts. Voldemort and Snape then meet in the boat house, where Voldemort tells Snape that the Elder Wand is not truly his, because he is not the master of it; that Snape is the master of the wand because Snape killed Dumbledore, the previous master. So, Voldemort attacks Snape, and then orders Nagini to kill him. Meanwhile, Harry had been looking into Voldemort's mind to see where he was, and so knew that he was in the boathouse. Harry, Ron and Hermione witness all of this, and when Voldemort disapparates, go into the boathouse. Snape cries a tear of memories, and comments on how Harry has his mother's eyes, and dies. Voldemort then speaks into the minds of every person in the area. He commands his forces to retreat so that the fighters at Hogwarts can dispose of their dead with dignity. He then tells Harry that, unless he gives himself up in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemort will kill everyone who stands in his way. Harry, Ron, and Hermione go back to the castle and find that Lupin, Tonks, and Fred have all died. Harry goes to the Headmaster's office, where he uses the Pensieve to view Snape's memories. Harry learns that Snape has been on the good side ever since Voldemort decided to kill Lily Potter (Harry's mother). Snape loved Lily almost his entire life, and promised to do anything for Dumbledore as long as he protected her. Then, when she was murdered, Snape promised to protect Harry in her place. We learn that Dumbledore had told Snape to kill him, as he would die soon anyway. We then learn that Harry is a Horcrux. Voldemort accidentally created one that fateful night at Godric's Hollow. For this reason, Harry must die. Harry then goes to the Forbidden Forest and opens the snitch (by saying I am ready to die). The Resurrection Stone appears inside the snitch, and Harry uses it to bring back his deceased loved ones. Harry faces Voldemort who uses the killing curse to kill Harry. Harry wakes up and talks with Dumbledore in a 'heaven-like" place. They talk a little, and Dumbledore says that Voldemort actually killed the bit of his soul that was in Harry, and not Harry himself. So, Harry decides to go back to the Forbidden Forest (his body was always there, but his consciousness was not). Voldemort has Narcissa Malfoy check if Harry is alive. When she reaches Harry, she finds that he is alive, and asks Harry quietly if Draco is still alive. Harry nods, and she pronounces him dead. Believing that he is truly dead, Voldemort's army marches down to the defenseless Hogwarts while Harry is being carried by the tied Hagrid. Voldemort torments the students and staff as they are now vulnerable and he's ready for anyone who wants to join him. Neville then gives a moving speech in which he says that although Harry is dead, the fight is not over. He then gets the sword of Gryffindor from the sorting hat. Harry reveals himself to be alive and casts a spell to Voldemort and his army. Many of the other Death Eaters flee, including the Malfoy family. Battle ensues inside the castle, and Harry and Voldemort face off and continuously cast spells at each other. On the other hand, Hermione and Ron try to kill the last Horcrux, Nagini. However, they fail to do so. However, when the snake is about to kill them, Neville kills it by decapitating its head using the sword of Gryffindor. Harry and Voldemort cast spells at each other, and Voldemort's killing curse backfires, and kills him, as the Elder wand flies to Harry. Harry explains to Ron and Hermione that Draco was master of the wand, not Snape, because Draco disarmed Dumbledore before Snape killed him. Then, at Malfoy Manor, Harry disarmed Draco, making Harry the true master of the wand. Harry then snaps the wand in two, and throws it away forever. 19 years later, Harry and Ginny are now parents and are guiding Albus Severus Potter and their other children into platform 9 3/4. When Albus is nervous about being sorted into Slytherin, Harry reveals to him that the sorting hat will take your opinion into account. The Potters meet up with Ron and Hermione who then watch as their kids ride away on Hogwarts express. 
