

The Hunger Games begins on the day of the reaping in District 12. Katniss Everdeen, the story's 16-year-old narrator, sets out to meet her friend Gale so they can do some hunting and gathering before the reaping that afternoon. As Katniss makes her way from her home to the Meadow and, finally, to the woods, where people of the district are forbidden to go, we learn about Katniss' life in the impoverished part of her district, the Seam, and her family. She thinks about her sister Prim, who is 4 years younger, and her mother, both of whom have depended upon Katniss for survival ever since Katniss' father died in a mine explosion when she was 11. The reaping is a nerve-wracking time because it determines which boy and girl, ages 12 to 18, will serve as the district's tributes in the Hunger Games. Two tributes are drawn in each of the 12 districts, and those tributes are sent to an arena where they fight until only one tribute remains alive. The victor gets to return home, and the victor's district is showered with gifts - namely food. The Games, put on by the Capitol, are meant to punish the 12 districts of Panem as well as to remind them of the Dark Days and how the 13th district was obliterated for its uprising against the tyrannical and cruel Capitol. Against all odds, Prim's name is selected at the reaping. Katniss volunteers to take the place of her younger sister and becomes District 12's girl tribute for the 74th Hunger Games. Peeta Mellark, a boy Katniss' age and the son of the baker, is selected as the other tribute. She remembers Peeta and the kindness he demonstrated toward her when they were children, giving her a burnt piece of bread so that she wouldn't starve. Peeta's selection doesn't bode well for Katniss, who feels that she owes Peeta for saving her life when they were children, which is inconvenient considering she's now expected to kill him in the Hunger Games. Before she leaves, Katniss says goodbye to her mother and Prim; to Madge, the mayor's daughter who gives her the mockingjay pin, a recurring symbol in the novel; to Peeta's father the baker; and to Gale, for whom her feelings are already conflicted, wavering between friendship and love. Katniss and Peeta ride the train to the Capitol. On the train, Katniss experiences luxury like she's never known and gets to eat the richest, most decadent food. They both get to know Effie Trinket, their escort, and Haymitch Abernathy, their drunk mentor and the lone surviving Hunger Games winner from their district who, after seeing that Katniss and Peeta have some fight in them, promises he will sober up enough to help them survive the Games. After they arrive at the Training Center, Katniss and Peeta meet their stylists. Katniss is pleasantly surprised when she meets Cinna, a young man who dresses simply and wears very little makeup compared with the other stylists. In a strategy that has never been used before, Katniss and Peeta are presented as a pair during the opening ceremonies. They race through the Capitol in a chariot holding hands, their outfits blazing in fake flames, earning Katniss her nickname "girl on fire." Their entrance becomes the highlight of the opening ceremonies. After the ceremonies, the tributes begin their training. Haymitch coaches Katniss and Peeta together, per their request, and instructs them to keep their biggest strengths a secret from the other tributes. For Katniss, this means staying away from archery. After many years of hunting game in the woods, her prowess with the bow and arrow are unrivaled. The Gamemakers reward her skills, and her feistiness, with a score of 11 out of 12 during her private session with them. Peeta's biggest asset is his strength, so he stays away from weight lifting while he's around the other tributes. Haymitch tells them to remain together at all times, too. They are to appear inseparable, which, as the training goes on, becomes increasingly tiring for Katniss, who can't decide whether Peeta's kindness and compliments are genuine or simply a part of a scheme for winning the Games. Six months after winning the 74th Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark have resumed their life in the coal mining town in District 12. As part of their victory, they now have a luxurious house in the so-called Victor's Village, where Katniss lives with her mother and sister. On the day Katniss and Peeta are set to begin a victory tour of the country, President Coriolanus Snow visits her. He explains that her approach to ending the last Hunger Games, where she and Peeta attempted a suicide pact after learning they could not both survive, inspired rebellions in the districts. He orders that Katniss not only convince the entire country of her and Peeta's love as the reason for their actions, but convince Snow himself as well; if not, her loved ones will be killed, and District 12 will be destroyed, just as District 13 was during the uprising years ago. The first stop of the tour is in District 11, former home of Rue, Katniss' 12-year-old ally who was killed in the previous games. After Katniss and Peeta voice their personal thoughts regarding both the districts' fallen tributes, a man in the crowd whistles the tune Katniss and Rue shared to ensure each another of their safety, and makes the three-finger salute of District 12. Everyone follows the man's example until a Peacekeeper shoots the man dead, leaving Katniss angry, afraid, and upset. Their mentor, Haymitch Abernathy, informs Katniss and Peeta that they must display their relationship for the remainder of their lives. Katniss proposes a public engagement between herself and Peeta, which is carried out and celebrated at Snow's home in the Capitol. There, Katniss meets with the new Game-maker, Plutarch Heavensbee, who has specifically requested the position, in spite of his predecessor, Seneca Crane, ending up dead due to his inability to control the ending of the previous Hunger Games. Upon returning to District 12, Katniss warns her close friend, Gale Hawthorne, of President Snow's threat to kill both their families. In the meanwhile, Heavensbee assists President Snow in his efforts to quell the uprising in the District. His strategy is to taint Katniss' public image, in an attempt to destroy her as symbol for the uprising. To that end, Peacekeepers crack down in District 12, causing Gale to be publicly whipped after attacking newly placed Head Peacekeeper Romulus Thread. However, Katniss and Haymitch intervene, making them even stronger advocates for rebellion. That evening, Snow devises a different strategy; if Katniss refuses to play by his rules, he will get rid of her by other means. He announces Panem's third Quarter Quell, a version of the Hunger Games every 25 years that contains a special provision: all tributes are selected from the existing pool of victors. Since Katniss is the only surviving female victor of District 12, this means she is a tribute by default. She immediately devotes herself to ensuring Peeta becomes the Quarter Quell's victor, should he compete in the games. At the reaping, Katniss and Haymitch are reaped by chaperon Effie Trinket. However, Peeta volunteers to take Haymitch's place and is sent directly to the train with Katniss, without a chance to say goodbye to their loved ones. This also cancels their wedding, which was supposed to take place the next day. Katniss and Peeta are taken to the capital city, ride the parade again and are forced into training. They meet their fellow victors from the other Districts. The two of them are immediately wanted as allies by the majority of the tributes, although some of them are old, weak or ill-suited for the physical match. Still, she finds that some of them, while lacking in brute strength, may have valuable surviving skills. During their individual evaluations, Peeta creates a drawing of a deceased Rue covered in flowers on the floor; an emotion-stricken Katniss creates a puppet in the likeness of Seneca Crane, and suspends it by its neck on the ceiling, as a a warning to a stunned Heavensbee. During the personal interviews with Caesar Flickerman, Katniss wears a wedding dress (as ordered to by President Snow). As a special effect, her designer Cinna has designed it to turn into a costume resembling a Mockingjay, which has become a symbol of silent protest against the Capitol. When it is time for Peeta's interview, he reveals (falsely) that Katniss is pregnant, which incites an overwhelming reaction from the public to cancel the game; however, President Snow orders that the game proceed anyway. Before entering the arena, as the pedestal rises, Katniss witnesses Thread and his men entering the room and beating Cinna to death, in punishment over his controversial dress design for Katniss. Katniss is devastated, but unable to stop them. She ends up in the arena, which is a tropical forrest with a central salt water lake, with an island in the middle containing the Cornucopia. The games start in the usual chaotic way, with most tributes going for weapons at the Cornucopia, resulting in a lot of initial deaths. Katniss and Peeta manage to survive the first wave of killings, and hide inside the forrest. Snow hopes that Katniss will kill and betray as many other tributes as possible to stay alive, and thereby make herself unpopular. However, as the games get underway, Katniss and Peeta ally with Finnick Odair and Mags, both from District 4. They find that the arena is a dome protected by electrical orcefields; Peeta nearly dies after hitting the field, but is resussitated by Finnick. Later that night, they are attacked by a chemical weapon made up of a fog of painful poisonous gas. Mags sacrifices herself early on, allowing the others to escape. The remaining trio rests in the middle of the forest where they are attacked by mandrills. During the attack the woman from District 6, a camouflage expert and drug addict, sacrifices her life for Peeta. After they escape the mandrills and rest at the beach, they are met by District 3's intelligent tributes, Wiress and Beetee, and District 7's female tribute, the cunning Johanna Mason. Johanna tells about how her group was surprised by a rain of blood, causing them to become blinded, and one tribute getting killed by an electric forcefield. The group subsequently witnesses a large flooding, killing an unknown tribute in one section on the other side of the jungle. Wiress discovers that the arena is designed like a clock and every hour a specific attack occurs in its designated section. The other group of tributes then launches a suprise attack, causing several deaths in both teams, including Wiress. Heavensbee causes the Cornucopia island to start spinning violently. The spinning causes the team to break apart. Finnick and Katniss make it to the jungle, to be subsequently lured into the woods by screams from their respective girlfriend and sister; however, it appears that they are fooled by jabberjays, genetically engineered birds that mimic the sounds of human voices. They re-group with the others. Beetee suggests a plan to electrocute the two remaining tributes outside the alliance, District 2's Brutus and Enobaria, by connecting a wire to a tree that is struck by lightning at noon and midnight each day. Beetee secures the wire to the tree, and Katniss and Johanna are required to take the other end back to the beach. The plan fails when the wire snaps, cut by Brutus and Enobaria, who are ready to kill Katniss. However, Johanna suddenly attacks Katniss, but cuts the tracker out of her arm and smears blood on her neck. With Katniss appearing dead, Johanna lures the other tributes away. After recovering enough to track down Peeta, Katniss finds the rest missing and Beetee unconscious. Finnick approaches and Katniss draws her bow, no longer knowing who she can trust, but hesitates to shoot. The storm clouds swirl and the lightning bolt starts to form. She quickly attaches the remaining wire to an arrow and shoots it at the force field during the lightning strike. This causes a massive blackout in the dome, and the arena to shut down. President Snow enters the game room demanding answers, only to find that the game is off the air and Heavensbee is gone. Due to the impact of the electric blast, Katniss is near unconsciousness, but witnesses the arena dome starting to crumble. In her last waking moment, she notices an aircraft entering and picking her up. She awakens in an aircraft with an unconscious Beetee. Upon entering the cockpit she finds Haymitch, Finnick and Plutarch Heavensbee, who reveals himself as an ally and a turncoat-rebel against Snow. Learning she is on her way to District 13, and Johanna and Peeta were taken away by the Capitol, she attempts to attack Haymitch for not fulfilling his promise of returning Peeta home safely. Plutarch sedates her and she awakens days later with Gale by her side, who informs that her family is safe but District 12 has been destroyed by a government airstrike. Katniss Everdeen, victor of the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, has been brought to safety in a large underground facility together with Gale, her mother  and her sister Primrose. She is being tormented by nightmares from her double ordeal in the arenas. Her co-tribute Finnick Odair  is also at the base, apparently suffering from post-traumatic stress, while fearing for the life of his girlfriend Annie. Katniss is summoned by general Boggs. He tells her that District 13, where they are currently residing, was bombed by the Capitol 75 years ago in retaliation over their part in the rebellion. However, unbeknownst to the Capitol, the survivors managed to build an underground bunker below the ruins. Katniss is brought to District 13's president Alma Coin, Plutarch Heavensbee, former Capitol Gamemaker who turned out to be an unexpected ally to the rebels, and Beetee, her fellow victor who is now wheelchair-bound. Coin expresses her admiration for Katniss' bravery, as well as her sympathy for the destruction of District 12. She explains that Katniss destroying the live feed during the previous Hunger Games has sparked a mass rebellion in the Districts. However, she believes that a war can only be successful if all Districts are fully united against their common enemy, the mighty Capitol. Beetee reveals that he once worked on designing the Capitol's defenses and broadcast system, and has therefore found a way to communicate with other Districts, and hack into the Capitol's news channel. Since Katniss has become the embodiment of the Mockingjay, the unofficial symbol of the rebellion, Coin and Heavensbee want her to do a series of propaganda films to win over those people who do not yet dare to take sides against the Capitol. Katniss angrily refuses, reproaching Heavensbee for leaving Peeta in the arena at the mercy of the Capitol. He convinces Coin that Katniss should be allowed to take a look in the ravaged District 12 to see the importance of her participation. When she leaves, Coin voices her doubts about Katniss' resolve; Heavensbee replies that she simply needs to be reminded who the real enemy is. President Snow  is preparing a speech to address the nation. He decides to downplay the significance of the rebellion in order to show off his strength, according to his philosophy that one should never be seen bleeding by one's enemies. Furthermore, he has several captured rebels publically executed, and proclaims that any association with the Mockingjay symbol is henceforth punishable by death. Katniss is taken to District 12 by plane, where she discovers to her horror that hardly any building is still standing, and the bodies of numerous dead people are still lying between the rubble. Her former house in Victor's Village has been spared; she finds her sister's cat and some personal belongings, which she takes with her. Suddenly, she discovers a fresh white rose in a bouquet of wiltering flowers, similar to the one given to her by president Snow the year before. She immediately remembers the threat he made to her about hurting her loved ones, and leaves. Katniss returns to District 13 and gives the cat to her sister, stating that she probably cannot keep it. Suddenly, there is a broadcast from the Capitol; Peeta Mellark  is giving an exclusive interview to Caesar Flickerman. Apparently in good health, he states that he and Katniss knew nothing of the plans to sabotage the Hunger Games, and that Katniss was drafted into inciting the rebellion; he urges people to surrender and lay down their arms, as civil war could lead to their destruction. He is immediately branded a traitor by the inhabitants of District 13. Katniss has a nightmare that night about Peeta, and fears for his safety. She goes to Coin to tell her she agrees to be the Mockingjay, on the condition that Peeta and the other prisoners of the Capitol are rescued and pardoned. Coin refuses, as District 13 believes in fair trials; Peeta's broadcast may persuade people to lay down their arms, so he should answer for his betrayal. Katniss furiously retorts that the Capitol may be abusing and torturing him into cooperation, and refuses to participate if he isn't rescued; her determination convinces Coin and Heavensbee that she has re-found her old vigor. Coin agrees to her terms as long as Katniss provides results (she also grants Katniss' request that Primrose can keep her cat). Effie Trinket, who has also been brought to District 13 where she loudly complains about the lack of luxury, is summoned to be part of Katniss' stylist team. That night, Coin officially announces Katniss as the face of the rebellion to a cheering crowd. Katniss learns from Primsrose that many people, including Coin's husband and child, have died several years back during an epidemic that plagued the facility. Coin further announces her intention to free the captured tributes; the crowd seems dismayed by her concession to pardon Peeta, but she stresses that this will only happen if Katniss holds up her part of the deal. Plutarch implies afterwards that Coin could have been less hard on Katniss, but Coin seems to believe otherwise. Effie meets up with Katniss and brings clothing designs from Cinna, who was killed by the Capitol, but not before he designed a Mockingjay costume for Katniss that emphasizes her role as the symbolic leader of the rebellion. Katniss starts shooting a propaganda film in a studio under the direction of Heavensbee, but her improvisation skills are far from convincing. Haymitch Abernathy, who has been following a mandatory rehab program, notices that Katniss always makes the strongest impression in spontaneous situations, so he suggests that she be sent into the field as a soldier, under protection at all times, where a crew can shoot propaganda footage of her while in action. Before leaving, Katniss visits Beetee who has made a sophisticated bow and explosive arrows for her to use while on tour. Gale will come along as her bodyguard. While leaving, Katniss learns that District 13 has been stockpiling weapons for years, preparing for a possible war with the Capitol. Upon questioning Boggs why District 13 did not come to the aid of the other Districts sooner, he answers that they weren't strong enough to survive a counter-attack from the Capitol yet, and would have been wiped out. Katniss retorts that Peeta said a similar thing, and was branded a traitor for it. Katniss meets her film crew, led by Cressida  and her team of Capitol refugees who include her assistant Messalla, director Castor, and cameraman Pollux, who is an Avox and therefore cannot speak since The Capitol had his tongue cut out. They fly over to District 8 where she visits a hospital full of wounded rebels. They are visibly surprised and delighted by her visit. One person asks about Katniss' baby; after some hesitation, she answers that she has lost it. She praises the rebels for their courage and encourages them to continue the fight, but then an incoming squadron of Capitol jets starts bombing the compound. Katniss and Gale successfully fight off the jets, but the planes manage to destroy the hospital, killing everyone inside. An emotionally devastated Katniss gives a powerful speech to the camera, telling Panem that president Snow will stop at nothing to win, even killing innocent victims, and can only be stopped if everyone supports the rebellion. She also assures him that all his acts of cruelty will be avenged. On the way home, Katniss implies that she is having a hard time being the poster girl for the rebellion, drawing thousands of people into the war and into their deaths. Back at District 13, the video is broadcast. It shows immediate effect: an entire squad of Peacekeepers is wiped out by rebels in District 7 the next day. Katniss and Gale are allowed to go hunting outside. Katniss takes aim at a large elk, but refuses to kill it, as the animal has apparently never been hunted before and refuses to run. They share a moment of intimacy before being called home. As they return, Peeta gives another interview. He now shows clear signs of being mistreated, but restates his opinion that Katniss is used as a symbol of the rebellion against her will, and urges her to stop supporting the uprising. Gale calls him a coward who sells out his comrades, but Katniss disagrees; Peeta once defended Gale when he was being tortured, and they have no way of knowing what the Capitol is doing to him. In an emergency meeting, it is decided that Katniss should make a video in District 12; showing Peeta what atrocities Snow has done there may change his mind. At District 12, Gale tells on camera that on the night of Katniss' victory at the 75th Hunger Games, he heard how all the Peacekeepers withdrew from the area. Knowing what would come, he tried to evacuate as many people as possible, but as District 12 was bombed, over 9,000 out of 10,000 people perished in the destruction. While taking a rest near a river, the crew notices a flock of mockingjays flying nearby that imitate every melody. Katniss is asked to sing a song, and she is filmed while singing "The Hanging Tree". The footage is broadcast on the news channel, and within a day, all rebels have adopted the tune as their protest song. A large group of people in District 5 destroy a large dam near the Capitol that provides electricity to the city. The main power of the Capitol is cut off, and with only back-up generators working, the city's defenses and broadcast capabilities are severely weakened. That night, Peeta gives another interview to Ceasar Flickerman. He looks even more emaciated and abused than before, yet again, he calls out at the rebels to stop the destruction and submit to the Capitol; however, when he notices that Beetee is disrupting the broadcast with Katniss' propaganda film, he suddenly realizes she is still alive, and warns her that Capitol planes are flying towards her location. He is silenced and the broadcast is suddenly interrupted. President Coin orders an evacuation drill. All inhabitants of District 13 are quickly evacuated to the lower levels where they will hopefully be safe from bombings. As several squadrons approach and bombs start falling, Katniss notices that her sister has not come along to the shelter. She gets back to the upper level to find Primrose having returned for her cat. They get back into the shelter just before it locks down, with a long night ahead of them. Meanwhile, Heavensbee urges President Coin to fire back; however, Coin decides to sit the situation out, not yet wanting to reveal to the Capitol that they aren't as defenseless as they may seem. In the shelter, Primrose tells about how she is being trained as a doctor in District 13's hospital. Katniss shares a realization with Finnick that President Snow is using their loved ones as torments against them; Finnick replies that he now sees that Katniss has a deep love for Peeta, something she no longer has to fake as a survival strategy. The next morning, the bombs have stopped and District 13 has survived the attack. President Coin asks Katniss to tape another promotional film outside, to show the Capitol that they are still there. She also says that thanks to Peeta, they had an eight-minute head start which ensured a successful evacuation, something she won't forget. While going outside into a bomb crater, Katniss notices that hundreds of white roses have been dropped into the area. She interprets this as a threat from Snow to kill Peeta, and refuses to do any additional filming. She goes back inside, where Haymitch talks back some courage in her. He also tells her that in recognition of the personal risk that Peeta took, Coin has authorized a rescue mission to the Capitol to save him and the others, with Boggs leading and Gale coming along. Finnick takes Katniss' place in the promotional video, which is used to distract the Capitol's defence network while the rescue team crosses into the city by helicopter, without resistance. He tells the nation that he and other victors of previous Hunger Games were often prostituted to rich Capitol citizens; refusal resulted in the death of loved ones. However, it enabled him to learn many secrets. One of them is that President Snow rules by poison; during his rise to power, Snow systematically killed all those who could oppose him by offering them poisoned drinks, which he himself drank as well in order to not arouse suspicion. He used counter-agents to neutralize the poison, but their effect was incomplete, leaving him with permanent bleeding sores in his mouth; to neutralize the smell, Snow is always surrounded by scented flowers. In the meanwhile, the rescue team has arrived at the Tribute Center. They enter and while making their way to the tributes, they traverse a sophisticated lab that seems to contain several torturing devices. When arriving at Peeta's location, the power to the Capitol is suddenly restored, and Beetee can no longer get into the power grid. Fearing the worst for the rescue team, Katniss wants to make an attempt to distract President Snow. She allows Beetee to connect her to Snow himself, who eventually responds. She tries to convince him that she isn't the Mockingjay everyone claims her to be. It was never her intention to sabotage the Games and incite a rebellion, she just wanted her family and friends to be safe. She even offers to stop and take Peeta's place as prisoner. Snow seems almost sympathetic to her words, but he sees right through her deception. He cryptically remarks that it is the things one cares about that becomes one's downfall. He tells her that he no longer believes this charade of innocence, and makes it very clear that he knows about the current rescue attempt being undertaken. The transmission is cut off immediately; Katniss is devastated, and convinced she is losing both Gale and Peeta. President Coin comforts Katniss as they wait for news. Suddenly, she learns that the rescue team has miraculously returned and was successful. Boggs and Gale have rescued everyone, but they are at a loss to explain why the Capitol allowed them to escape unharmed. Joanna Mason  is back, apparently mistreated but feisty as ever, while Finnick is reunited with his girlfriend Annie. Katniss is being taken to Peeta, who looks emaciated but is otherwise fine. She tries to hug him, but he suddenly assaults her and chokes her within an inch of her life; Boggs can just barely knock him unconscious. Katniss awakes, badly bruised. Heavensbee tells her that Peeta has been 'hi-jacked': through psychological torture and hallucinatory tracker jacker venom, he has been conditioned to experience nothing but fear and hatred at the sight of Katniss, hoping she would die by his hands as Snow's ultimate revenge. They will start to work on him, but his recovery, if any, will be long and arduous. As Coin announces the successful liberation of the prisoners to the people of District 13, and expresses her hope that the Districts will now unite against their mutual oppressor, Katniss sneaks into the medical facility where Peeta is being treated, and realizes to her horror that he is kept in isolation, completely psychotic and screaming in agony. In the opening scene, Katniss Everdeen  is getting vocal therapy after being nearly choked to death by Peeta Mellark  in the previous film. Once she can properly speak, she sees her younger sister Primrose "Prim" Everdeen  entering Peeta's cell. The programming inflicted on Peeta in the Capitol eventually makes him freak out. He thinks that Katniss is a dangerous Capitol-created mutation, and tells Prim to kill Katniss. Katniss goes to District Two with her military escort to film more propaganda videos for the rebel cause. Gale Hawthorne  accompanies her. He admits that he has seen Peeta, and realized that if he stays this way, Katniss will always chose him over Gale out of pity. On the way, she kisses Gale, but he calls it "the kiss of a drunk person." She jokes that with Peeta safely in Thirteen, he doesn't have to be jealous anymore. Katniss overhears Gale and Beetee  discussing a dubious trick they mean to employ. It involves setting off a bomb that will kill many people and force the survivors to flee, and then deploying a second bomb in their direction to maximize the number of victims. Once in District Two, Commander Paylor  mentions that the Rebellion failed to capture the arsenal from the Nut, a huge mountain containing Capitol infantry. Gale suggests that they use the special bombs that he and Beetee designed to blow up the Nut and take it over from the inside. Katniss protests, saying that there are a lot of civilians in there, but the rest are convinced that those people made their choice by collaborating with the enemy. When the hovercrafts go, Katniss says that it's horrible as lives will be lost. Gale tells Katniss that this is war. Katniss is rushed off to shoot a propaganda speech, and then the captured refugees arrive by train. The rebel troops treat the refugees with suspicion, ordering them to drop their weapons and shooting some who don't comply. Katniss stops her speech and screams at everyone to stop.... and then a refugee holds her hostage. He tells Katniss, "Give me a reason why I shouldn't shoot." Katniss replies that she can't, but that the Capitol has been setting the Districts against each other, providing them with plenty of reasons to kill each other. She's so tired that dying would be a relief. The refugee lets her go and Katniss begins an anti-President Snow speech, only to be shot. Chaos ensues. In the Capitol, President Snow  celebrates with his delegates with a toast at his dinner table, but they all drink without stating what it is they're drinking to. Snow asks one of his ministers, Antonius, what they are celebrating. He replies that it's Katniss's death. Snow replies that if Katniss were really dead, the resistance would have made a martyr out of her already. Antonius then says that they toast since Katniss has failed. Snow disagrees and tells him that they are celebrating the ending of an era. Antonius drops dead, having been poisoned. Katniss wakes up from her injuries to find a bald, morphine-crazed Johanna Mason  in her room. Johanna is mad at Katniss and blames her for everything, although she admits her anger is partially jealousy, since Katniss was always intended to be irreplaceable for the uprising. She pulls out Katniss's morphine drip and attaches it to her own arm. Katniss manages to ease Johanna's sarcasm by admitting that Johanna would have made a better Mockingjay. Next, Katniss visits Peeta, who's still locked in a cell and strapped to his bed. Peeta is no longer enraged but still blames Katniss for everything, going so far as to say if he'd never given her the overdone bread from his parents' bakery, they would never have ended up in that state. Katniss is visibly upset and goes on to a conference with President Coin  and Plutarch Heavensbee. Katniss wants to go to the Capitol and fight, but Coin, saying she's in no shape to fight and too valuable to lose, orders her to stay and shoot more propaganda films. Plutarch offers no objections, so Katniss agrees. Katniss then attends the wedding of Finnick Odair  and Annie Cresta. At the reception, everyone is happy and dancing except Katniss. Johanna finds her brooding and when Katniss says she wants to kill Snow, Johanna offers to cover for her and suggests a plan: sneak on board a medical supply hovercraft headed for the Capitol. Katniss goes off to dance with her sister Prim, hugging her before following Johanna's plan. When the hovercraft drops Katniss with the medical supplies outside the Capitol, Katniss tries to be unobtrusive but is recognized by almost everyone she encounters. She finds Gale and people crowd around, curious about why she's there. Commander Paylor makes a speech. The Capitol is surrounded by rebels and its citizens are abandoning the streets. The Peacekeepers have placed deadly "pods" all over the Capitol. The pods are traps armed with deadly weapons, similar to traps used in the games created by the Capitol. Being unable to control her, President Coin has integrated Katniss into Squad 451, whose job it is to shoot propaganda videos while locating and destroying the pods. They are ordered to remain behind the front lines to stay as safe as possible, while boosting morale with their propaganda videos. The squad is commanded by Boggs  and includes Katniss, Gale, Finnick, filmmaker Cressida, Homes, Lt. Jackson, Mitchell, Messalla, the twins Leeg 1 and 2 and Castor and Pollux, an avox (mute). They are each given a Nightlock pill, which causes instant death if they need to commit suicide to stay out of the Capitol's hands. Boggs has been issued a holo, a device that displays a holographic map and helps detect pods; however, the information on the pods is based on intelligence from spies, and may be outdated. The holo can also act as a bomb if the word "Nightlock" is repeated three times. The squad assembles and finds the first pod. Katniss fires an arrow toward it, which triggers a giant explosion. The squad decides to camp out in an abandoned restaurant for the night, when Peeta is unexpectedly dropped off by a military escort. Katniss is on edge, but the soldiers delivering him explain that President Coin wants Peeta in the videos as well, to show him actively fighting the Capitol alongside Katniss. Boggs takes Katniss aside and tells her about Coin. He says Coin wanted Peeta saved and not her; now that victory is at hand, Katniss may be a liability for Coin, who wants to be the next President of Panem. Though Katniss has no political aspirations, her allegiance to any candidate carries considerable weight. Because Coin can't be sure Katniss will endorse her, she prefers to be rid of Katniss now. She may have added Peeta to the team in the hope that he would kill her in a fit of rage and fear. Boggs tells Katniss to watch out. Night falls and Peeta can't sleep. He and Katniss talk, and they play a game to help Peeta figure out what is real and what parts of his memories are planted by Capitol programming. As day comes, Finnick helps Peeta as they explore the city, entering an oval courtyard surrounded by abandoned apartment buildings. They're getting ready to shoot a propo. A pod of machine guns appears, but everyone dodges the hail of bullets. As they walk forward, Boggs is suddenly shot in his chest and Leeg 1 takes a bullet in the leg. Boggs, with his dying breath, gives Katniss full security access to the holo. He also tells her not to trust them, and to kill Peeta if necessary. Leeg 2 accidentally activates a trigger hidden under the pavement, releasing a torrent of black ooze which floods towards the team and quickly submerges the courtyard. While escaping, Peeta becomes frightened; his Capitol programming is activated and he tries to kill Katniss with a bow. Mitchell intervenes and in the process, Peeta shoves him in the ooze which causes him to fly up and get impaled by spikes. The surviving members of Squad 451 run inside a building. Jackson, as Boggs' second in command, demands the holo from Katniss. Katniss says that Boggs transferred the voice-activated holo to her (which is true) and that she is on a personal mission to kill Snow, on orders of President Coin (which isn't). Cressida backs up Katniss' story, saying that Plutarch wants the assassination of Snow to be televised, hoping that it will quickly end the war. Jackson doesn't believe it and commands Katniss to transfer the holo to her (Jackson). Katniss shows her it's programmed for her, but Jackson still has doubts. A Mexican standoff occurs, but eventually Jackson backs down and allows Katniss to keep the holo as long as she obeys orders. Leeg 2 decides to stay behind with her injured twin; Jackson promises to send help as soon as they can. Peacekeeper soldiers arrive as soon as the rest of the squad exits the building and they take refuge in a vacant apartment across the courtyard. They watch in horror as the Peacekeepers blow up the building they just left, killing the Leeg twins. Peeta feels extremely guilty over snapping and killing Mitchell and nearly killing Katniss. Suddenly, a broadcast pops up. Caesar Flickerman  announces the death of Katniss and her squad as the building blowing up is televised. Snow pops out and says that he's happy to see Katniss dead and that the rebellion is over. Then Coin hijacks the broadcast, defending the Mockingjay (Katniss) and asserting that she is still the face of the revolution, even in death. The squad heads for the president's mansion, but the holo shows multiple traps on the street. Pollux signs to Castor that they can go down into the sanitation system instead, a place where he did slave labor and is reluctant to go back to, but they have no choice. Underground, they hide from the peacekeepers but are seen on the security camera. President Snow, whose nose is bleeding, then sees the security camera footage and is surprised. In the sewage system, after narrowly avoiding a steam pipe burst, the team decides to sleep. Katniss indulges Peeta in more games of 'Real or Not Real' and then Peeta reveals that the Capitol used wasp Tracker Jacker venom in his programming. Katniss promises to keep them alive. Katniss then hears something and the group investigates. Something has been sent after them. After some intense searching, suddenly dozens of hideous, lizard-human hybrid creatures which are called "mutts" (short for mutants?) appears from all directions and attack. Jackson is quickly overwhelmed and is either torn apart and/or bitten to death by the weird creatures. The remaining group fights them off and tries to escape. Castor is trampled and killed by the creatures. Cressida and Messalla are separated from the rest of the group as more creatures converge on them. The squad is corralled into a junction area space with a ladder leading up to the ceiling. Here, Katniss is nearly killed by one creature but she and Peeta fight them off (she with her bow and explosive-tipped arrows, and he with his assault rifle) as they stand back to back fighting. Cressida and Messalla reappear where they assist the group and order them to escape up the ladder. Cressida takes on and guns down several of the creatures herself, showing more of her fearless combat skills. Finnick uses his trident to fight off the creatures while the remaining members of the squad escape up the ladder. Unfortunately, this turns out to be his sacrifice; as he tries to ascend the ladder, the creatures overwhelm him. Not wanting Finnick to die in vain, Katniss says "Nightlock" three times and throws the holo into the melee of mutts and a screaming Finnick. The holo explodes, killing the creatures and ending Finnick's suffering. In an underground space that looks like a subway station, the surviving members of the squad run across a floor, fired upon by Peacekeepers. As the floor begins to collapse, lethal beams in the light fixtures kill those who pass under them. Messalla runs into a beam and disintegrates into black ash while Peeta panics, thinking he's about to activate again. Katniss stops and kisses him, which fixes him right up. They get out to the surface and Cressida takes them to a fashion shop owned by Tigris, who sports elaborate tiger-stripe tattoos and has apparently had some surgery to make her mouth and nose look more feline. She hides the five surviving members of the squad in a secret basement under her shop. Katniss eventually recognizes Tigris as one of the stylists who worked with contestants at the games. Tigris indicates that her tiger makeover was forced on her by President Snow "because I wasn't pretty enough any more." While hiding underground, Pollux weeps over the loss of his brother Castor, while Cressida tends to Gale's wounds, sustained while fighting the mutts. A distraught Katniss says that her mission was fake and that she feels responsible for all those deaths. Cressida tells her that they all knew she wasn't on a mission ordered by Coin. But everyone, even Jackson, decided it was worth the risks. Peeta mentions his Capitol programming and tells Katniss to end all of it. He tells her that if Snow dies, all of the deaths will be for something. He tells Katniss to handcuff him again to be safe from him.(Peeta has been handcuffed most of the time he's been with Katniss's squad.) While Katniss tries to sleep, Gale and Peeta reconcile. Gale tells Peeta that she loves Peeta, not him ("she never kissed me like that"). An emergency broadcast pops up with President Snow ordering Capitol residents to take shelter in the presidential mansion -- the Rebellion has arrived. As the pods near the mansion will presumably be deactivated, Katniss decides to walk with the refugees and take down Snow once and for all. Gale decides to go with her; Katniss uncuffs Peeta. While Cressida and Pollux will have to stay behind since their rugged appearances are too noticeable -- and someone needs to watch Peeta -- Katniss and Gale, wearing coats with hoods that partially obscure their faces, march towards Snow's mansion with the other refugees. Katniss is almost recognized by a little girl who is carried by her mother. When they see Peacekeeper soldiers checking everyone's faces, they try to go back, but are forced to follow the crowd when the Peacekeepers start closing in from behind as well. Just as a Peacekeeper is about to expose Katniss, a nearby tank explodes -- the Rebellion soldiers have arrived in the Capitol. Katniss sees the little girl weeping over her dead mother. Gale is captured by the Peacekeepers and dragged away. He screams at her to shoot him with her bow, but she doesn't. Katniss runs to the front of Snow's mansion, where she sees parents passing their crying children from hand to hand through the crowd to get them through the mansion's gate -- children were the first priority in the evacuation. Then suddenly, a plane carrying the Capitol logo drops dozens of small, odd silvery pods on little parachutes. The crowd watches them fall; some people even reach out for them. The pods explode, killing many in the crowd, both adults and children. Katniss sees Prim, now a combat medic, trying to tend to the children. She screams a warning at Prim, only for another batch of bombs to drop and explode, killing Prim and knocking Katniss unconscious. A wounded and burned Katniss wakes up inside Snow's mansion while her mother  tends Katniss's wounds. Haymitch  informs her that the rebellion was successful, and that Coin is now leading them. From the moment that the Capitol bombs fell on the citizens, the Peacekeepers immediately turned against the Capitol, and the palace was taken within a short time. From her mother's wordless tears, Katniss learns that Prim died. When she's in shape again, Katniss explores the mansion and eventually goes to the garden, where Snow is held under guard in the conservatory. Though no one is allowed access, Commander Paylor grants her an audience with him. Snow is his cheery old self, as always, not seeming to mind his defeat. He tells Katniss that he was not responsible for the parachute bombs; he may not be above killing children, but he does not approve of waste either. He reveals that the bombs were part of Coin's secret plan to discredit him, and they worked -- even his guards turned against him for killing the children. He coughs up some more blood and wipes it away with his handkerchief. Katniss says in disgust, "I don't believe you." Snow answers, "Oh, my dear Miss Everdeen, I thought we had agreed not to lie to each other." Katniss is awaiting an audience with Coin. She meets first with Gale. Katniss indirectly blames him for Prim's death, as the circumstances of her death closely resemble the 'bomb trap' she heard him discuss earlier. He admits that he honestly doesn't know whose bombs killed Prim, though he apologizes for not protecting her. Katniss bitterly says "Goodbye, Gale." A meeting takes place with Coin and the surviving victors. Coin has appointed herself interim President of Panem and says she'll call elections when the time is right, but the people are currently in no state to vote yet. Snow is to be executed, but Coin fears that this will not satisfy the need for vengeance among the citizens of Panem. She has an idea: she wants to have another Hunger Games, but with Capitol children. She asks the victors to vote on it. Peeta, Annie, and Beetee are strongly against the idea, but Johanna and two other victors are in favor. It's all up to Katniss and Haymitch. After demanding that she be allowed to execute Snow, which Coin agrees to, Katniss says 'yes' for Prim, although she becomes aware of Coin's motive. Haymitch, after looking at Katniss as though she's lost her mind, nonetheless says "I'm with the Mockingjay," meaning the vote goes in Coin's favor, 4 to 3. Effie Trinket  dresses up Katniss for the execution, and Katniss pockets a Nightlock pill. Katniss marches alone into the arena, the large parade ground where the tributes used to be showcased, and where Snow is bound to a pole. President Coin (who is conveniently standing on a stage just beyond Snow) makes a speech before saying to Katniss, "May your aim be as true as your heart is pure." Katniss aims her arrow at Snow, who appears unfazed. Thinking of her last conversation with Snow and the meeting with Coin before the execution, Katniss realizes that Snow was telling the truth about Coin: she ordered the bombing of Capitol refugees that caused Prim's death. So rather than shooting Snow, Katniss turns her arrow and shoots Coin, killing her. The crowd is shocked as Coin tumbles to the ground, dead, while President Snow almost chokes from laughter. As the livid crowd charges towards the laughing Snow, Katniss tries to commit suicide by taking the pill, only for Peeta to smack it out of her hand. Katniss is dragged off and taken into custody as the crowd reaches Snow and they brutally beat him to death. Katniss is placed in a vacant, guarded room where Haymitch soon arrives and reads a letter written to her by Plutarch. Plutarch says that he regrets not meeting face to face, but in the light of what happened, it is better if he is not seen with her. He expresses his approval of what Katniss did. Nevertheless, she will be exiled for some time to her old District Twelve. He says the leaders of the districts are choosing an interim leader to replace Coin. It will probably be Commander Paylor, who will eventually pardon her for killing Coin. Plutarch says at the end: "We may mess up, but perhaps we may learn from our mistakes this time." Katniss is sent back by train to her home in the Victors Village in District Twelve, accompanied by Haymitch. After saying goodbye to Effie, Haymitch tells Effie not to be a stranger and kisses her. Back in Twelve, when Katniss enters her home, she sees Prim's cat Buttercup in the kitchen. She has an emotional meltdown over Prim, shouting at the cat that Prim is gone and never coming back. Then she hugs the cat and cries. She slowly builds herself up again by hunting. One day she finds Peeta planting primroses in her garden -- the flower her sister was named for. They hug and then after a montage of them living together, Peeta asks Katniss: "You love me. Real or not real?" Katniss answers: "Real." Several years later, Katniss and Peeta are married and have two children. Peeta is playing with the older child while Katniss peacefully holds the sleeping baby in the same field that opened the first Hunger Games film. The baby wakes up and fusses a little and Katniss asks, "did you have a nightmare?" She says someday she'll tell her children her story, and that nightmares are like a game played over and over again, and can feel tedious at times... "but there are worse games to play." The Hunger Games begins on the day of the reaping in District 12. Katniss Everdeen, the story's 16-year-old narrator, sets out to meet her friend Gale so they can do some hunting and gathering before the reaping that afternoon. As Katniss makes her way from her home to the Meadow and, finally, to the woods, where people of the district are forbidden to go, we learn about Katniss' life in the impoverished part of her district, the Seam, and her family. She thinks about her sister Prim, who is 4 years younger, and her mother, both of whom have depended upon Katniss for survival ever since Katniss' father died in a mine explosion when she was 11. The reaping is a nerve-wracking time because it determines which boy and girl, ages 12 to 18, will serve as the district's tributes in the Hunger Games. Two tributes are drawn in each of the 12 districts, and those tributes are sent to an arena where they fight until only one tribute remains alive. The victor gets to return home, and the victor's district is showered with gifts, namely food. The Games, put on by the Capitol, are meant to punish the 12 districts of Panem as well as to remind them of the Dark Days and how the 13th district was obliterated for its uprising against the tyrannical and cruel Capitol. Against all odds, Prim's name is selected at the reaping. Katniss volunteers to take the place of her younger sister and becomes District 12's girl tribute for the 74th Hunger Games. Peeta Mellark, a boy Katniss' age and the son of the baker, is selected as the other tribute. She remembers Peeta and the kindness he demonstrated toward her when they were children, giving her a burnt piece of bread so that she wouldn't starve. Peeta's selection doesn't bode well for Katniss, who feels that she owes Peeta for saving her life when they were children, which is inconvenient considering she's now expected to kill him in the Hunger Games. Before she leaves, Katniss says goodbye to her mother and Prim; to Madge, the mayor's daughter who gives her the mockingjay pin, a recurring symbol in the novel; to Peeta's father the baker; and to Gale, for whom her feelings are already conflicted, wavering between friendship and love. Katniss and Peeta ride the train to the Capitol. On the train, Katniss experiences luxury like she's never known and gets to eat the richest, most decadent food. They both get to know Effie Trinket, their escort, and Haymitch Abernathy, their drunk mentor and the lone surviving Hunger Games winner from their district who, after seeing that Katniss and Peeta have some fight in them, promises he will sober up enough to help them survive the Games. After they arrive at the Training Center, Katniss and Peeta meet their stylists. Katniss is pleasantly surprised when she meets Cinna, a young man who dresses simply and wears very little makeup compared with the other stylists. In a strategy that has never been used before, Katniss and Peeta are presented as a pair during the opening ceremonies. They race through the Capitol in a chariot holding hands, their outfits blazing in fake flames, earning Katniss her nickname "girl on fire." Their entrance becomes the highlight of the opening ceremonies. After the ceremonies, the tributes begin their training. Haymitch coaches Katniss and Peeta together, per their request, and instructs them to keep their biggest strengths a secret from the other tributes. For Katniss, this means staying away from archery. After many years of hunting game in the woods, her prowess with the bow and arrow are unrivaled. The Gamemakers reward her skills, and her feistiness, with a score of 11 out of 12 during her private session with them. Peeta's biggest asset is his strength, so he stays away from weight lifting while he's around the other tributes. Haymitch tells them to remain together at all times, too. They are to appear inseparable, which, as the training goes on, becomes increasingly tiring for Katniss, who can't decide whether Peeta's kindness and compliments are genuine or simply a part of a scheme for winning the Games. Then, just before their interviews, Peeta asks Haymitch to coach him separately. This angers Katniss, who feels betrayed, but decides that she and Peeta aren't friends and the sooner they stop pretending they are, the better things will be. At the interview, however, Peeta professes his love for Katniss, and the audience believes they are star-crossed lovers, trapped in an arena where their love cannot survive. Katniss is furious with Peeta for making her look weak in front of the audience and the other tributes. Haymitch and Cinna, however, assure Katniss that Peeta has given her an advantage, making her appear desirable. The 74th Hunger Games begin with the tributes rising up from below ground. They stand in a circle around the metal Cornucopia, a giant golden horn that holds supplies and weapons, meant to lure the tributes in for a bloodbath. Haymitch has instructed Katniss not to run toward the Cornucopia, but to run as far away as she can and find water immediately. Upon seeing a bow and quiver of arrows, however, Katniss questions Haymitch's advice and readies herself to retrieve them from the Cornucopia, but as she does so, she sees Peeta shaking his head at her, which distracts her long enough to make her miss the opening gong that releases the tributes. She runs in just far enough to retrieve a single backpack and then takes off into the woods, where she is most comfortable. She runs all day, placing as much distance as she can between herself and the other tributes, while taking stock of her surroundings. The woods calm her, but she's unable to find water. That first night, while sleeping in a tree, she sees that the Careers, the tributes from the wealthier districts, have formed an alliance and are hunting the weakest tributes together. She is shocked to see that Peeta is a part of their group and decides that she can't trust him after all, that he distracted her at the Cornucopia on purpose, and that he has been misleading her all along. When she sets out the next day, she still can't find water and is close to death when she finally discovers a small pond. While in the arena, Katniss constantly has to battle hunger, dehydration, the other tributes, and the Gamemakers, who are able to send violent fires and explosions through the woods. One night, the Careers and Peeta pin Katniss in a tree. Rue, the young tribute from District 11 hiding in a nearby tree, silently points out a tracker jacker nest to Katniss. Katniss cuts the nest loose, dropping it on the Careers and Peeta early the next morning. The tracker jackers kill the girl from District 4 and Glimmer, the beautiful tribute from District 1. Katniss gets stung a few times herself but is able to escape. As she's running, she remembers the bow and arrows that Glimmer had. She goes back to retrieve them before the hovercraft comes to take away Glimmer's dead body. Hallucinating from the tracker jacker venom, Katniss has a hard time concentrating, and she can hear the footsteps of the Careers returning. It's Peeta who finds her and tells her to run. He stays to fight off Cato, the violent boy tribute from District 2, and saves Katniss' life, again making her question Peeta's motives and wonder whether his feelings for her are true or simply an act for the audience. Katniss forms an alliance with Rue, who reminds Katniss of her little sister Prim. Rue says she knew she could trust Katniss because of her mockingjay pin. Rue loves mockingjays and their songs, and Katniss and Rue decide to use the mockingjays in the arena to communicate while they carry out their plan of destroying the Careers' food supply down at the Cornucopia. Katniss sets off the Careers' own booby traps, destroying most of their food and causing Katniss to lose hearing in her left ear, but when she returns, she can't find Rue. Following Rue's screams, Katniss appears in time to see the boy from District 1 spear Rue to death. Katniss kills him. Then she sings to Rue until she's dead and then decorates her friend's body with flowers. This memorial to Rue is seen as an act of rebellion by the Capitol; tributes from opposing districts are supposed to kill each other, not form true friendships during the Games. With just six tributes remaining, including Katniss and Peeta, Claudius Templesmith, the Games' announcer, declares a new rule to the Games. This year, two tributes can win so long as they come from the same district. Katniss immediately sets out to find Peeta, whom she knows has been injured badly by Cato. She finds him camouflaged in mud and in bad shape. The gash on Peeta's leg from where Cato struck him has become severely infected. Katniss takes him to a cave where he can heal in safety and, while there, she works hard to give the audience what it wants, which is romance, knowing that satisfying them will earn their support in the form of gifts. She knows, too, that if she plays the audience right, Haymitch and any sponsors he can find will deliver the very necessary gifts at the right time. She kisses Peeta and talks sweetly to him. They continue to flirt in the cave, but Peeta gets blood poisoning and Katniss knows that he won't live much longer without medication. Claudius announces that there will be a "feast" at the Cornucopia at dawn and that there will be backpacks for each district containing something that those tributes desperately need. Katniss is sure that her backpack will contain medicine for Peeta, who says he won't let Katniss risk her life for him. Haymitch sends Katniss sleeping syrup, which she uses to put Peeta into a deep sleep while she makes her way to the Cornucopia. As she races to get her backpack, she is caught by Clove, the girl tribute from District 2, who is skilled with knives. Clove pins her to the ground, but before she can carve Katniss' face, Thresh, the boy from District 11, kills Clove and frees Katniss. Thresh lets Katniss go, just this once, because of what she did for Rue, who was the other tribute from his district. Katniss thanks Thresh, retrieves her backpack, and runs back to the cave. The medicine in the backpack attacks Peeta's infection and he slowly regains his strength. Katniss and Peeta hunt and gather in the woods, and Katniss can't help but think of Gale and how she misses him. She wonders what Gale thinks of Peeta and how she kisses him, but then doesn't like to think of Peeta and Gale at the same time because her feelings are so complicated. When the only remaining tributes are Katniss, Peeta, and Cato, Katniss knows that the Gamemakers will soon drive them together for their final battle. True enough, the streams and ponds dry up, forcing the remaining tributes to head for the lake near the Cornupia for water. Katniss and Peeta go to the Cornucopia to wait for Cato. Cato emerges from the woods being chased by muttations, creatures made by the Capitol. These particular creatures are wolf-like and can balance on their hind legs. They also each represent one of the dead tributes, possessing their eyes and hair color. Peeta, Katniss, and Cato climb up the Cornucopia, trying to get out of the creatures' reach. Cato grabs Peeta, who received a deep bite and is bleeding profusely. Katniss shoots Cato in the hand, which causes him to fall to the ground where the muttations attack him. The animals gnaw on Cato through the night; Katniss shoots him with an arrow the next day to end his, and their, suffering. Katniss and Peeta believe the Games are over, but then Claudius Templesmith's voice announces that the new rule that was previously established about two tributes winning has been revoked. Only one tribute can win. Katniss realizes this has been the Gamemakers' plan all along, to end with the star-crossed lovers and watch one of them sacrifice his or her life for the other. Katniss, however, comes up with a plan. She and Peeta both prepare to eat poisonous berries, which makes Claudius take back his most recent announcement, stating that two tributes can indeed win, declaring Katniss and Peeta as this year's Hunger Games winners. Back in the Capitol, Katniss and Peeta are nursed back to health, their scars and burns polished smooth, though Peeta loses his leg. They will be reunited in front of an audience, but before they take the stage, Haymitch warns Katniss that the Capitol isn't happy with her. They believe that her stunt with the berries made them look like fools. Haymitch says that she must convince them that she's so madly in love with Peeta that she can't be held responsible for her actions. As Katniss takes the stage with Peeta to watch the video replay of the Games, she's aware that the most dangerous part of the Games has only just begun. During the video showing, as well as during her interview with Caesar Flickerman, Katniss is quite convincing. Peeta is as well, but he doesn't require any coaching. Katniss, thus far, has preferred to believe that Peeta is simply a more natural actor. She wonders, though, if he might truly love her. The novel ends with Katniss and Peeta on their train ride back to District 12 as heroes. The closer she gets to home, the more confused Katniss becomes about her feelings for Peeta and about her true identity. She knows that pretending to love Peeta has saved her life and that she must continue to pretend to love him so that the Capitol doesn't punish her for her final act in the arena. Still, her mind centers on Gale and how she can't wait to be reunited with him. When Peeta finds out that Haymitch was coaching Katniss even after their return, he feels betrayed. He wants to know what has been true between them and what things will be like once they've returned to District 12. Katniss can feel him distancing himself from her and knows that she is losing him. At the novel's end, Katniss isn't sure who she is now that she's a victor in the Hunger Games. She also doesn't know whom she loves, Gale or Peeta, or where her life will go from here with the Capitol's eyes closely upon her.
