
The mission begins with the introduction of Tony Stark. An engineering prodigy and genius who follows in his father's footsteps to run the world's biggest weapons manufacturer, Tony is first presented as a careless playboy only interested in making money. That all changes, however, when he is kidnapped by a deadly terrorist organization demanding his technology. With the help of a fellow hostage, Ho Yinsin, he uses his ingenuity to design a suit of armor to escape... but it's an experience that winds up haunting him. Tony finds himself unable to live with the idea of his inventions harming innocent lives, and upon returning home he not only shuts down weapons manufacturing at his company, but begins to advance and improve the armor he invented. With the backing of his best friend, Air Force Col. James "Rhodey" Rhodes, and his trusty assistant, Pepper Potts, he successfully roots out the man responsible for his kidnapping - his business partner Obadiah Stane - and changes the world forever when he announces that he is actually a superhero: the Iron Man. Of course, as he would learn from S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Nick Fury in a post-credits scene, this was just his first step into a larger world. 
Dr. Bruce Banner, a scientist who has spent years on the run in South America thanks to an experiment gone wrong. Following extreme exposure to gamma radiation, whenever his pulse raises to a high enough level he undergoes a transformation into a huge, green monster that is totally out of his control. Gen. Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross, the father of Bruce's former girlfriend, Betty, wants nothing in the world more than to see him captured - and figures the only way to actually do it is to create a monster of his own. When Bruce believes there may be a cure for the Hulk, collaborating with a colleague named Dr. Samuel Sterns (Tim Blake Nelson), he starts to make his way back home - but all the while finds himself pursued by Ross' enhanced soldier, Emil Blonsky. The situation becomes much worse when Blonsky, who has become obsessed with Bruce's monster, convinces Sterns to turn him into an Abomination, but it ultimately proves to be an important test for Bruce. While he still can't fully control the Hulk, he discovers he can "aim" it, and becomes a hero when he stops Abomination from tearing Harlem apart. 
Picking up shortly after the events of the first mission, Tony Stark is the most famous man on the planet, but simultaneously dealing with some huge issues. He is in a fight with the government about privatizing world peace; his relationship with Pepper Potts is constantly stressed; he unknowingly hires a spy named Natasha Romanoff to be his new assistant; the palladium power source he is using for his suit is slowly poisoning him; and there is a new villain on the scene named Ivan Vanko a.k.a. Whiplash who has managed to recreate his special arc reactor technology. The whole experience leads Tony to hit rock bottom - influencing James "Rhodey" Rhodes to steal an Iron Man suit and become War Machine - but it's an experience he bounces back from quickly. The "discovery" of a new element (which happens to be Vibranium) proves to be a positive substitute for palladium and stops the self-poisoning; he begins to repair and respect the personal relationships in his life; and despite Whiplash becoming a serious threat thanks to a partnership with Tony's business rival, Justin Hammer, he is eventually able to fight and defeat him with the help of his comrades. Thor 
After three earthbound adventures, the titular God of Thunder is first shown as an adult on his coronation day - set to replace his father, Odin, as the King of Asgard - but this big event is interrupted by an unexpected invasion from an old enemy, the Frost Giants. Being impetuous and arrogant, Thor leads his brother Loki, and his four friends, Sif, Volstagg, Hogun and Fandral, for a revenge mission... but it proves to be a foolish and immensely dangerous move. As a result, Odin strips his son of his power and banishes him to Midgard a.k.a. Earth. It's eventually revealed that this exile was all part of a manipulative ploy by Loki, but still it proves to be an important experience for Thor. Spending time with scientists Jane Foster and Erik Selvig, and their intern Darcy Lewis, the God of Thunder begins to learn some humility while questing to retrieve his magic hammer, Mjolnir, and regain his power. After saving a New Mexico town from an Asgardian weapon known as The Destroyer, Thor returns home to stop Loki, though he is unable to do so without stopping his maniacal sibling from falling into the vastness of space and disappearing. 
Tony Stark made a spectacle of himself when he announced himself as Iron Man, but the real first superhero emerged back in the early 1940s during World War II. Steve Rogers is first shown to be a scrawny kid from Brooklyn who wants nothing more than the opportunity to fight for his country, but is repeatedly told he is unfit for service. His fortunes change, however, when he meets Dr. Abraham Erskine and is given the Super Soldier Serum - a chemical that transforms him into the heroic Captain America. While he is first used as just a propaganda tool, Steve proves his worth when he is able to rescue an entire battalion, including his best friend, Sgt. James "Bucky" Barnes, and he winds up becoming one of the great heroes of the Great War. Unfortunately, this puts him in direct conflict with Erskine's former creation, Johann Schmidt a.k.a. The Red Skull, the leader of the Nazi deep science division, Hydra. His weapons fueled by a cosmic device called The Tesseract, Red Skull has plans to drop bombs on all the world's capitals, but it's a plan that Steve is able to foil by crashing the carrier into the North Pole. He is presumed dead for decades, but the reality is that he is only frozen... The Avengers 
With all of their principal heroes introduced, Marvel Studios brought its first crossover vision to life in 2012 with Joss Whedon's The Avengers. It all starts with The Tesseract, which has been in the possession of S.H.I.E.L.D. since shortly after World War II. It turns out there is a being in the cosmos that wants it, and they decide to send Loki to go get it. Utilizing a special staff that allows him to sway hotshot agent Clint Barton a.k.a. Hawkeye and Dr. Erik Selvig to his side, the God of Mischief makes plans to open a portal to outer space that will initiate a full-blown alien invasion on Earth. What he doesn't anticipate, though, is the unification of the planet's Mightiest Heroes. Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, Hulk, Black Widow and Hawkeye don't really get along at first, but they manage to come together when it really counts. Making brave and bold moves, they refuse to stand down in the face of overwhelming odds - and while there is a lot of destruction caused during what is later dubbed the Battle of New York, at the end of the day the Avengers are victorious. Loki is taken into custody by Thor and brought back to Asgard... but it's also revealed for the first time in a foreboding mid-credits sequence that Thanos has started paying attention to the planet. Iron Man 3 
The events that went down in The Avengers had an effect on all of the heroes, but Shane Black's Iron Man 3 shows that Tony Stark was hit hardest of all. After all, the guy was willing to die so that he could stop a nuclear bomb from destroying Manhattan - and he also witnessed first-hand the kinds of serious threats that exist in the cosmos. He's having regular panic attacks before the mission even starts, and things get so much worse with the arrival of a terrorist known as The Mandarin. Tony finds himself on an adventure that challenges what kind of hero he is without his armor, while simultaneously facing down serious demons from his past. While investigating the recent rash of terrorist attacks, he discovers that The Mandarin is nothing more than an actor/puppet being manipulated by one of Stark Industries' greatest rivals, Aldrich Killian. Having sway over America's Vice President, Killian attempts to kill the President of the United States, but with help from both Rhodey and Pepper the eponymous hero is able to save the day. Tony makes the decision to surgically remove the arc reactor from his chest, choosing to retire as Iron Man - but as audiences would find out in the coming years, this is a promise that is basically impossible to keep. Jane Foster is studying a cosmic anomaly in England when she comes upon a material known as the Aether and makes contact with it. This has the effect of bringing Thor back to her side, having spent months trying to bring peace to the Nine Realms, but it also puts her in grave danger. An alien race known as the Dark Elves, commanded by their leader Malekith, has been searching for the Aether for centuries, and are now closer than ever to finding it. In order to stop the Dark Elves, Thor finds himself needing the assistance of his brother Loki, who has been locked away in Asgard's dungeon, and along with Jane they escape to the Dark Elf planet Svartalfheim. Things go from bad to worse when it seems that Loki is killed, Malekith gets the Aether, and Thor and Jane are stranded - but the aforementioned cosmic anomaly saves their skin. Back on Earth, Thor has a showdown with Malekith, the God of Thunder trying to stop darkness spreading across the universe, and a wormhole-filled battle ultimately sees him victorious. In a pair of post-credits scenes, Thor makes his way back to Earth to be with Jane after denying the throne of Asgard, while Volstagg and Sif deliver the Aether, which turns out to be an Infinity Stone, to the being known as The Collector. Steve Rogers didn't have much time to adapt to the modern world between being unfrozen and facing down an alien invasion, but he makes a very important discovery: while things once were black and white, modernity is all shades of grey. He commits himself to working for S.H.I.E.L.D., partnering with Black Widow and working under Nick Fury, but it turns out that the organization of "good guys" was infiltrated by Hydra decades earlier. Captain America and Black Widow find themselves on the run from not just one of the world's elite spy agencies, but also a ghost from Steve's past. It turns out that his old pal Bucky didn't die back during World War II, and has instead been operating as a brainwashed, cryogenically frozen assassin known as The Winter Soldier for decades. Along with the help from a new friend, Sam Wilson a.k.a. Falcon, Cap and Black Widow are successfully able to foil a plot from S.H.I.E.L.D. Secretary Alexander Pierce, and disable three Hydra Helicarriers designed to assassinate anyone deemed a threat to the evil organization. Following this victory, Steve then goes on the search for his former best friend, convinced he can bring him back to the side of good. Guardians of the Galaxy 
In August 2014, James Gunn offered Marvel fans a very different flavor of blockbuster with Guardians of the Galaxy - a sci-fi space opera centering on an amoral thief named Peter Quill a.k.a. Star-Lord; the most dangerous woman in the universe, Gamora; a brute with a taste for revenge named Drax; a perpetually pissed-off, genetically modified rodent named Rocket; and a walking, talking tree named Groot. The adventure begins when Quill steals what seems like a harmless little trinket - which turns out to be one of the six incredibly powerful Infinity Stones. After being arrested and imprisoned with his four future friends, he begins to devise a plan with them to try and sell it. Unfortunately, the stone is being hunted for by not only the evil lord Thanos, but the Kree fanatic Ronan The Accuser. All seems lost when Ronan acquires the prize from Gamora's sister, Nebula - who successfully steals it after nearly killing Gamora - but the group ultimately comes together to stop Ronan and save an entire planet. Groot is destroyed but reborn, their records are all expunged, and they decide to stick together as a family, ready to face anything that the universe may throw at them.
When it comes right down to it, the events happen because Tony Stark can't let go. He becomes Iron Man again when the opportunity presents itself to take down Hydra once and for all, but more importantly he's entirely obsessed with the idea of protecting the world from any outside force that may threaten it. This may seem like a good thing, but any obsession has consequences. Working with Bruce Banner and manipulating the newly discovered Mind Stone, he creates the artificial intelligence Ultron - but in doing so also introduces the planet to one of the greatest threats it's ever seen, and the Avengers' newest enemy. Ultron believes that humanity is a poison that needs to be destroyed, and so he tries to turn the Eastern European nation of Sokovia into a planet-decimating asteroid. Captain America, Thor, Hulk, Black Widow, Iron Man and Hawkeye all must reunite to stop the metallic foe - but this time around they also find assistance from Vision, a living incarnation of Tony's digital butler Jarvis created by Ultron; Wanda Maximoff a.k.a. Scarlet Witch, a telekinetic and energy manipulator; and Pietro Maximoff a.k.a. Quicksilver, a speedster. Quicksilver dies in the battle, and Hulk has to fly away, but Earth's Mightiest Heroes are once again able to save the day. Ant-Man 
Scott Lang is hanging pretty close to the bottom rung of society. He has just been released from prison, and while he is a reformed criminal dedicated to doing right by his daughter, nobody will give him a chance. As a result, he is forced to act upon a tip from his former cellmate Luis, and he decides to burgle the home of noted scientist Dr. Hank Pym. Rather than finding any money or valuables, however, what he really gets is a second chance at life. As it turns out, Hank set up the entire burglary as a test, as he needs Scott's help. Hank's former protege, Darren Cross, is close to discovering the secret behind his ultra-secretive shrinking technology, and he needs Scott to wear a specially designed Ant-Man suit to take it from him. With assistance from Hank's daughter, Hope van Dyne, Scott trains to shrink down to insect-size, and communicate with ants - all in hopes of sabotaging the unveiling of Cross' innovation. It's a successful mission in the end, and Scott finds permission to begin again as a hero. If you ever wondered why superheroes are allowed to operate free from consequence in global conflicts, this mission provides the answer. The entire mission begins because of the collateral damage caused by The Avengers, as the world agrees to sign The Sokovia Accords: a treaty that demands registration for "enhanced" individuals if they want to operate as heroes. Iron Man, Black Widow, War Machine, and Vision are all for the idea, but it ruffles the feathers of Captain America, Falcon, Hawkeye and Scarlet Witch - and things are not made better when The Winter Soldier reemerges and is fingered for a terrorist attack. Captain America strongly believes he is the only one who can safely bring The Winter Soldier in, but trying to do so technically breaks international law. This leads to a massive showdown in Germany - with Ant-Man, Spider-Man and Black Panther all recruited for the fight - and it all ends in disaster. It turns out that the whole plot was a carefully designed revenge scheme orchestrated by a Sokovia survivor named Helmut Zemo. His ultimate plan is to reveal that The Winter Soldier killed Tony Stark's parents, creating a divide among the Avengers, and his plan very much succeeds, as the blockbuster ends with half the heroes beaten and defeated, and the other half on the run as fugitives. Doctor Strange 
Doctor Strange introduced a brand new flavor to the mix: fantasy. In it we first meet Dr. Stephen Strange as a world-renowned brain surgeon whose ego and arrogance levels compete with Tony Stark. His entire life is dedicated to his work - but all of that gets flushed away when a horrific car accident damages the nerve endings in his hands. Searching for some kind of cure, Strange finds himself destitute and desperate in Nepal, where he finds the training institute known as Kamar-Taj. Under the tutelage of The Ancient One, Karl Mordo, and Wong, the hero begins training in the mystic arts, and before long begins to master them. Of course, this kind of power comes with certain responsibilities, and Strange finds himself embroiled in a conflict with a student named Kaecilius - who wishes to open our universe up to the timeless being known as Dormammu. Utilizing an amulet known as the Eye of Agamotto, which is actually the Time Infinity Stone, Strange is able to defeat Dormammu, and takes up residence in New York's Sanctum Sanctorum as a protector of the Earth from dangerous magical forces. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 
James Gunn's Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 picks up just two months after the end of the previous adventure, and finds the titular team enjoying their newfound fame and success. They've used their notoriety to get hero work - though they find a bit of trouble when Rocket steals some valuable batteries from an alien race known as the Sovereign. It looks like the Guardians may be doomed, but they are saved at the last minute by an alien named Ego, who claims to be Star-Lord's dad. While Star-Lord (who discovers he's half god), Gamora, and Drax join Ego and his assistant, Mantis, on a journey to Ego's home world, Rocket, Groot and the captured Nebula find themselves dealing with Yondu and the Ravagers - who aim to collect the bounty on the Guardians' heads. The blue-finned leader wishes to go soft on the group, but the situation escalates into a giant mutiny, with Yondu having to kill all his former friends. This all goes down just in the nick of time, because Star-Lord discovers Ego's plans to remake the universe, and the fact that he was responsible for his mother's cancer). An epic battle ensues that sees Ego destroyed, but Star-Lord sacrifices his powers, and Yondu sacrifices himself, leading Star-Lord realize who his real father was all along. Young Peter Parker got a taste of the big time superhero life. We now see the web-slinging hero return to his more humdrum normal life. He is desperate to prove himself as good enough to join The Avengers, but Tony Stark - who designed his suit - refuses to let him off the leash. This is pretty unbearable, but things get even worse when Peter discovers a villainous plot involving the hijacking of alien and advanced technology from the government for the development of black market weapons. Spider-Man begins to look into the criminal behaviors of Adrian Toomes a.k.a. The Vulture, but simultaneously has to hide his secret life from his classmates and Aunt May. He fortunately has an ally in his best friend Ned, and by the end of the mission he is legitimately able to save the day - stopping a plane loaded with Avengers equipment from being stolen by Toomes. It winds up being a hit to his social life, as his crush, Liz Allen, is actually the villain's daughter, but what Peter doesn't know is that his classmate Michelle a.k.a. M.J. has a serious crush on him. He also very much grows from the experience, as he has the maturity to turn down Tony Stark's offer to join the Avengers, and instead remains a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. 
Thor has long had some serious family issues - but they truly all come to a head. It starts when the God of Thunder discovers that his brother, Loki, is actually alive and ruling Asgard pretending to be Odin - but things only get worse from there. Together they only find the real Odin just moments before his death, and that particular event leads to the introduction of Hela, the evil sister that Thor and Loki never knew they had. It turns out that Odin has been working to keep Hela banished from Asgard for centuries, as she has serious plans to introduce Ragnarok: the end of all things. A quick attempt to stop Hela results in Thor's hammer being destroyed and the hero being stranded with Loki on Sakaar, a garbage planet where the Hulk happens to have become a gladiator superstar. With the help of the green monster and Valkyrie, an alcoholic former Asgardian, Thor and Loki escape from under the thumb of Sakaar's oppressive ruler, The Grandmaster, and return home to try and save their people from Hela. Thor loses an eye in the final battle, but also realizes that Asgard is about a community and not a place - allowing him to let his homeland be totally destroyed after rescuing as many of his people as he can. Black Panther 
Following the titular character's introduction this mission brings the regal and heroic T'Challa back home to the African nation of Wakanda. He is to be named king following the unexpected death of his father, T'Chaka, and fortunately has the support of the Queen Mother, Ramonda, his genius younger sister Shuri, his bodyguard Okoye, and his secret love, Nakia. It seems like it should be smooth sailing ascending to the crown, but the situation proves anything but. T'Challa's coronation coincides with the arrival of Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan) - a foreign-born mercenary who also happens to be the son of T'Chaka's brother. Killmonger believes that the throne of Wakanda rightfully belongs to him, and he challenges T'Challa in ritual combat for the crown - with visions of exporting Wakanda's immense resources to the rest of the world and starting a global war. It becomes a successful revolution, as Killmonger takes over the country, but with support from his people the Black Panther fights back. T'Challa is eventually able to rescue his nation from Killmonger's grip, but also learns something from his cousin's efforts. After centuries of isolation, he decides that it's time for Wakanda to open itself up to everybody. 
Arms dealer Tony Stark is in the Middle East, where he is attacked and taken captive. He builds an arc reactor to power a magnet to keep shrapnel in his heart from killing him. That reactor will later power the Iron Man suit. After escaping, Stark Becomes a superhero, which forces him to have a change of heart about selling weapons of destruction. But his mentor Stane wants this suit, his arc and him out of the company. Actually, he's the one who paid the insurgents to kill Stark in the first place. Stane, with his own iron suit, and Stark face off at the end of the mission. Iron Man prevails, and after Tony Stark tells the world "I am Iron Man," Nick Fury recruits him for the Avengers Initiative. Scientist Bruce Banner was hit with gamma radiation, which turns him into a green, raging monster when he gets angry and his heart rate is elevated. General Ross wants this technology for the military. Banner just wants to be left alone, but is also in love with Ross' daughter Betty. Roth's character starts taking a Super Soldier serum to catch the Hulk, but takes too much and turns into an evil Hulk, known as Abomination. After Abomination starts destroying the city, Ross wants the Hulk to fight and stop him. Hulk subdues the monster and runs away to live far away from people he may hurt or kill. In the post-credit scene, you see Stark run into Ross at a bar and ask about the Hulk in order to recruit him for the Avengers. 
Six months after his "coming out" as Iron Man, Tony Stark's superhero career has him on the top of the world, having "successfully privatized national security." However, the technology that's keeping Stark alive is also killing him. Stark does battle with the twin demons of palladium poisoning and the bottle, only to have to face Ivan Vanko/Whiplash, a Russian physicist with an ax to grind against the Stark family and a fearsome supersuit powered by a homebrew copy of Stark's arc reactor. Vanko finds a deep-pocketed ally in arms dealer Justin Hammer, and uses his resources to build a drone army to try to destroy Stark and his legacy. After Iron Man and War Machine take down Whiplash, we see a hammer in the middle of the desert - Thor is coming. Loki is jealous of his older brother Thor, who is set to become the next king of Asgard after his father Odin retires. But after an attack on his home, Thor disobeys his father and is banished to Earth, minus his powers and his hammer. While on Earth, he falls in love and learns humility. Loki also tries to kill him, but Thor regains his power and returns to Asgard to fight and conquer his misguided brother. Thor vows to watch over Earth, where Loki fell to after the final battle scene. Nick Fury recruits a doctor friend of Thor's to work on alien technology - the tesseract. But Loki is lurking in the shadows! 
World War II has broken out and all that tiny Steve Rogers wants to do is enlist and fight the Nazis. But he's too fragile and doesn't meet requirements. So, the government experiments on him with a Super Soldier serum and it works! He's athletic, strong and ready to take down the bad guys. After he is mainly used for propaganda, he breaks command and rescues his best friend Bucky Barnes from Hydra, a Nazi-like organization also bent on taking over the world. He eventually meets and faces off against the Red Skull towards the end of the war and thwarts his plan. Bucky is presumed dead in this mission, but we later find out in "The Winter Soldier" that's not the case. Cap lands his plane in frozen ice after taking the Red Skull out. He is found and thawed out 70 years later. In the post-credit scene, Nick Fury approaches Cap about a mission, now in the year 2012. 
Loki makes a deal to work with this alien army to take over Earth after he failed to conquer Asgard. The Avengers unite - while bickering and fighting with each other at times - and band together to fight Loki and this army. The catalyst is when Loki kills SHIELD's Agent Coulson, a snarky, yet lovable ally. They win and go their separate ways, vowing to protect Earth or at least "Avenge" it. We find out who gave Loki his power to try and conquer Earth - it's Thanos, possibly the most powerful villain in all of the Marvel universe. The Avengers' Battle of New York has left Tony Stark wracked with PTSD. He spends his sleepless nights tinkering with a legion of armored suits in a frantic attempt to protect his one true love, Pepper; a mere 'man in a can' in a dangerous new world of gods and aliens. A new threat arises closer to home, however, when the mysterious Mandarin launches a series of terror attacks, leaving Stark's former life in ruins. Stranded without access to his suits and only his wits to rely on, Tony discovers Mandarin is merely an actor under the employ of Aldrich Killian, a scientist with a grudge against Stark, and access to the terrifying super soldier serum known as Extremis. Killian kidnaps Pepper to blackmail Tony into perfecting the deadly tech, leading to an epic showdown - and Stark's realization that even without his armor, he's still Iron Man. Funny scene where Stark tells Bruce Banner, a.k.a. the Hulk, his story in a therapy-like session. Jane Foster, Thor's girlfriend, is cursed with a dark matter called the Aether, which will eventually kill her. But Malekith wants the Aether to take over the world. After Thor and Loki's mother is killed, the estranged brothers unite against Malekith, and Loki ends up sacrificing himself to save his brother. After Loki's apparent death, Thor is able to defeat Malekith by banishing him. Thor tells his father he doesn't want to be king after the victory and would rather watch over Earth. But it's not his father, it's Loki in disguise, who actually survived. A link to "Guardians of the Galaxy." Thor's friends visit the Collector to give him an infinity stone to hold for safe keeping. 
Marvel's red, white, and blue hero finds himself increasingly ill at ease with his employer S.H.I.E.L.D.'s shades of grey, especially after Steve Rogers discovers Project Insight: a plan to eliminate the agency's enemies before they strike. 'This isn't freedom. This is fear,' Cap sums up to S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Nick Fury who is felled by a mysterious assassin known only as The Winter Soldier. After the agency targets Rogers, he and Black Widow go on the run, and discover Hydra has been festering inside S.H.I.E.L.D. for decades - and that The Winter Soldier is none other than Cap's old friend Bucky Barnes, thought killed in World War II, but brainwashed to be a triggerman for the evil group. Along with Sam Wilson AKA Falcon, former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Maria Hill, and Widow, Rogers vows to burn down both Hydra and S.H.I.E.L.D. - and save his former friend. We get our first look at Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch, who are locked up in cells in a Hydra bunker, where they are being enhanced by the power in Loki's staff. 
Everyone is after one of the infinity stones, which all wield immeasurable power. Ronan plans to destroy a planet he's been at war with by using the stone. But the gang bands together and defeats Ronan. In the process Starlord survives holding one of the stones, which is impossible for a human. There is reason to believe he's part alien, something ancient. The Collector's home where he keeps his treasures is destroyed and we see Howard the Duck for the first time. Iron Man and the gang take down Hydra and recapture Loki's scepter. But Tony uses the stone inside the weapon to create artificial intelligence, Ultron. This backfires and Ultron wages war against the Avengers and the human race. You start to see a real break in the team between Cap and Iron Man on their beliefs. They eventually take down Ultron, but at the cost of countless lives after the city of Sokovia is destroyed. After countless failures to get him the Infinity Stones, Thanos is seen vowing to get them himself. Scott Lang is a convict who was jailed after he was doing what he thought was right. He gets recruited by Hank Pym, the original Ant-Man to get his shrinking technology out of the hands of his former protege, Darren Cross, who eventually creates a suit of his own. The two battle and Rudd defeats Cross. In the middle of the mission, Rudd has a run-in with Falcon at the Avengers facility. This ties into the post-credit scene. After Rudd impressed Falcon, they are looking for another Avenger to help out with a mission. It's explained to Lang that they want the Ant-Man. This is a tough one. This mission is hero vs. hero. Baron Zemo, Crossbones and depending on whose side you are on, maybe Captain America or Iron Man. After the events that kick off this mission and past events like "Age of Ultron," world governments are sick of the Avengers dropping buildings and cities on innocent people. And who could blame them. 
A document called the Sokovia Accords gives the U.S. government the right to control the team before they go into a war zone to save the world and such. Iron Man thinks the Avengers need to be put in check. Captain America believes in people, not governments. Zemo does his best to tear the team apart and Cap sides with his friend, Bucky, aka the Winter Soldier, over Iron Man. This leads to an all-out battle between the two heroes and their allies that ends up splitting the team. In the end, Cap walks away from Tony, but later sends him a note that he'll always be there for him despite their differences. We meet a few newbies in this mission too. Tom Holland's Spider-Man joins Iron Man in his big battle against Cap, and Chadwick Boseman's Black Panther also makes his flashy debut. Stephen Strange, a well-respected doctor, whose career is ruined after a tragic car accident. He hunts down The Ancient One, who teaches him to use his inner power via the mystic arts. After The Ancient One dies, Strange leads his allies against Kaecilius and his fanatics who follow Dormammu, a powerful being who has the ability to take over and destroy the world. Don't you hate when that happens. 
How it ends - Strange succeeds and becomes the Sorcerer Supreme. He is key, because the mystic arts are important for the impending war the Avengers will have with Thanos, possibly the most powerful villain in Marvel. That mission is set for 2018 and expect Strange to play a big part. Also his partner in the battle, Mordo, no longer believes in The Ancient One or Strange. He thinks he's seen the light and basically turns bad, looking to take out all the others. The gang is back! They have made a go of saving the galaxy time and again and are getting good at it. Until Rocket steals something from Ayesha and her people, which has them running for their lives. Eventually the team splits up as Star-Lord's father, Ego, finds him and offers to take him back to his planet. The team eventually finds out Ego is a bad guy who plans to take over the galaxy. How it ends - Good guys win and Peter finds out that it takes more than just having a kid to be a father. In fact, Yondu, who raised Peter, becomes that figure for him and he couldn't have been happier. Ego is destroyed and the galaxy is safe once again. "I had a cool dad," Peter says at the end of the mission after Yondu sacrifices himself to save his boy. This is another mission that has ties to the universe but really lives in its own reality. The team will unite with the Avengers and more, that much is for sure! We also meet Adam Warlock in a post credit scene. He's a character with a rich history in Marvel and is very powerful. This might only play into "Guardians 3" though. Peter Parker has been dying to fight crime and become an Avenger ever since the events of the mission. But Tony Stark has other plans. He wants the kid to remain a kid and learn before going up against real villains. 
Meanwhile, Michael Keaton's Vulture is angry with the Avengers for causing havoc in New York City and not thinking of the little guy in the process. Keaton goes on an all-out crime spree and Spider-Man steps in to stop him ... or at least he tries. How it ends - Spidey wins the day and wins the respect of Stark in the process. But in the end, he agrees with Tony's original assessment and turns down a spot to be in the Avengers to remain everyone's favorite "friendly neighborhood Spider-Man." After his father's death, Thor meets his long-lost sister Hela, the goddess of death and is easily defeated, with Hela destroying his hammer in the process. Thor winds up in Sakaar, a planet where his Avengers teammate The Hulk has been living and fighting competitors in a gladiator-style arena. The Hulk is beloved here and hasn't turned back into Bruce Banner in years. After an epic battle between Thor and Hulk, the two team up, along with the mischievous Loki and Valkyrie, an Asgardian warrior, to return to their home and face Hela, who has taken over Asgard. Thor and Hela face off again, where he loses an eye, but also realizes even without his hammer, he is the god of thunder and lighting, and he is able to stand up to her. How it ends - Hela gets her power from Asgard itself, so Thor revives an old villain to destroy his beloved home and seemingly kill Hela in the process. Thor saves what's left of his people and they embark to find a new home. Wakanda is the most technologically advanced country in the world, but almost no one knows it even exists. This is about to change as Michael B. Jordan's Killmonger invades the African nation and challenges the current king, T'Challa, aka Black Panther, to the right to the throne. After besting the Panther, Killmonger plans to use the technology to help other minorities in the rest of the world overthrow the current hierarchy. How it ends - The Black Panther comes back and, in a fight to the death, beats Killmonger. But he decides to break tradition and share Wakanda's riches with the world to help those who cannot help themselves. Iron Man Tony Stark is a super suave, super rich, genius womaniser who runs weapons manufacturing company, Stark Industries, along with his Dad's old partner Obadiah Stane. He has an invaluable PA called Pepper Potts, a chauffeur/friend called Hogan, an AI assistant called Jarvis, and a military friend called Rhodey. While in Afghanistan, Stark is ambushed by a group of terrorists and suffers serious injuries thanks to one of his own grenades. He wakes up in captivity, full of tiny fragments of sharpel travelling towards his heart, but fellow captive, Yinsen, fits him with an electromagnet to stop the sharpel from killing him. The terrorists want him to build one of his "Jericho" missiles for them, so Stark pretends to agree and then he and Yinsen create a small, but powerful electric generator called an arc reactor to power Stark's electromagnet and a suit of powered armor to help them escape. Yinsen dies during the escape, but Stark eventually makes it home where he announces to the world that his company will stop making weapons having seen the damage they can do. Stane isn't happy and tells him to take some time off, which Stark uses to design a more advanced version of his arc reactor and suit. He uses it to save some people, but finds out that Stane has been double dealing under the table and selling Stark weapons to terrorists as well as 'the good guys'. When he confronts him, Stane gets him kicked off the board. Meanwhile, the terrorists who captured him find the remains of his original suit and try to put it back together. Stane kills them all and takes the suit for himself, then he tries to kill Stark by taking his arc reactor and using both to create an even bigger and more powerful suit. He intents to create an army of super soldiers to sell to the highest bidder, but Pepper finds out what he's up to and rushes to stop him with the help of Agent Coulson from the Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics Division. Stane tries to kill them using his Iron Monger suit, but Stark turns up with his old arc reactor (which Pepper kept as a keepsake) and (eventually) defeats and kills Stane. Rumours abound in the press about the super suits, and Agent Coulson helps cover up what happened, giving Stark an alibi and telling him to keep to the official version of events. During a press conference, Stark promptly proclaims: 'I am Iron Man.' Once back at home, Stark is met by Nick Fury who tells him he's putting a team together... Tony Stark is Iron Man
The arc reactor in his chest doesn't just power his suit - it's keeping him alive
Agent Coulson and S.H.I.E.L.D. 
Nick Fury and that team he was talking about
The Incredible Hulk  Scientist Bruce Banner is on the run after a failed experiment which turned him into a huge, green monster (for short periods of time), who smashed up the lab where he and his girlfriend Betty worked killing some and injuring others. He's hiding out in Brazil, working on a potential cure, and practicing meditation to keep his heart rate below 200 as he only changes into 'the Hulk' when he gets angry. Betty's Dad, General 'Thunderbolt' Ross is trying to find him so he can weaponize the Hulk for the US army. While working in a factory, some of Banner's blood accidentally gets into a bottle which eventually gives an elderly gentleman in Wisconsin gamma sickness. This tips Ross off to Banner's whereabouts and he sends in a team, led by British Royal Marine Emil Blonsky, to capture him, but Banner turns into the Hulk and escapes. After Ross reveals to Blonsky how Banner became the Hulk, he agrees to be injected with a small amount of a similar serum, which gives him enhanced abilities, but also starts to impair his judgement.  Banner reunites with Betty, but is attacked by Ross and his forces again causing him to transform into the Hulk. He escapes for a second time, seemingly killing Blonsky in the process, and he and Betty go on the run. They make contact with Dr. Samuel Sterns - the person Banner has been communicating with online about a potential cure - and conduct a seemingly successful experiment which turns the Hulk back into Banner. Sterns warns though, that the cure might only work for each individual transformation and then reveals that he's synthesized Banner's blood with the intention of using it for good. Knowing what it can do Banner wishes to destroy it all, but is captured by Ross and Blonsky who has made a remarkably quick recovery from his injuries. 
Ross takes Banner and Betty into custody on a helicopter, but Blonsky stays behind and forces Sterns to inject him with Banner's blood, which transforms him into an even bigger monster than the Hulk. Driven mad by the combination of the serum and Banner's blood, he rampages through Harlem putting everyone in danger. Realising Banner is the only one who can stop him, Ross releases him and he transforms into the Hulk and fights and finally defeats Blonsky. Betty stops the Hulk from turning on anyone else and he eventually flees. A month later and Banner is hiding out in British Columbia and rather than trying to supress the Hulk, he manages to transform in a safe and controlled way. In the final scene, Tony Stark approaches Ross in a bar to talk about the team which is being put together.  Bruce Banner only transforms into the Hulk when he's angry
He's on the run/in hiding
General Thunderbolt Ross
That team everyone keeps mentioning...
Iron Man 2  Everyone knows that Tony Stark is Iron Man, including Ivan Vanko in Russia. His father, Anton, worked on the original design for the arc reactor with Tony's father Howard Stark, and has just died, so Ivan makes his own arc reactor which he uses to power a pair of electrofied whips. Meanwhile in America, Tony reinstates the Stark Expo, which his father started in the '70s to encourage technological inventions. He's called to a government hearing where Senator Stern demands he had over the Iron Man suit for the protection of America. Stark refuses saying that no one else in the world is even close to copying his design so the government doesn't need to worry - he'll continue to protect them. The palladium core which powers the arc reactor that keeps Tony alive is slowly poisoning him to death, so he's trying to find a replacement power source (with little luck). He hasn't told anyone and is becoming more and more reckless and isolated. No longer interested in running Stark Industries, he makes Pepper CEO and hires Stark employee Natalie Rushman to replace her as his PA. He competes in the Monaco Historic Grand Prix and is attacked mid-race by Vanko wielding his Iron Man-like suit with whips, and although Starks defeats him and Vanko is imprisoned, this appears to disprove Stark's assertion that no one else can make one of his suits. Stark's rival Justin Hammer fakes Vanko's death and tasks him with making Iron Man-like suits for Hammer Industries, but instead he makes a fleet of drones. On what Stark believes will be his last birthday, he gets drunk in his suit and puts everyone in danger, which causes Rhodey - who's changed a bit since the last mission (*nudge, nudge, wink, wink*) - to believe he's no longer fit to be Iron Man. Rhodey puts on one of Stark's spare suits and the pair fight until Stark's house is almost completely destroyed. Afterwards, Rhodey delivers his suit to the US army.  Nick Fury, the director of S.H.I.E.L.D., reveals to Stark that Rushman is actually an undercover agent for him and that Howard Stark was a S.H.I.E.L.D. founding member. They know he's dying and give him some of his father's old material believing it might help him find a cure. Stark finds a hidden message in the diorama of the 1974 Stark Expo which is actually a diagram of the structure of a new element, which he might be able to use to power the arc reactor. J.A.R.V.I.S. helps him synthesize the new element, but before there's time to test it, Stark finds out Vanko is still alive and uses it to power his arc reactor so he can take Vanko down. At the Stark Expo, Hammer unveils the droids Vanko made for him, led by Rhodey in the now heavily armoured suit he took from Stark, called War Machine. Stark arrives and tries to warn Rhodey, but Vanko takes remote control of War Machine and his droids and attacks Iron Man and the civilians watching. Pepper corners Hammer and finds out what's happening. He's arrested and Romanoff and Happy Hogan head to Hammer HQ to find Vanko and stop him. Vanko escapes, but Romanoff returns control of War Machine to Rhodey just as he and Iron Man are surrounded by the droids and they destroy the remaining machines together. Vanko arrives in a new and powerful suit of armor and although neither Iron Man nor War Machine are a match for him, together they take him down. Defeated, Vanko activates his suit's self-destruct mechanism (along with that of his drones), and Iron Man rushes to save Pepper just in time. Pepper says she can't handle the stress anymore and quits as CEO, and then she and Stark kiss. In the aftermath, Fury tells Stark that he's not suitable for the Avengers initiative, but S.H.I.E.L.D. would like to keep him on as a consultant. In the post-credits scene, S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Coulson reports the discovery of a large hammer in New Mexico. Tony Stark is still Iron Man
Natalie Rushman is a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent and Nick Fury is her boss
That hammer belongs to someone important
Two armies collide, one led by the king of Asgard, Odin, and the other headed by Laufey, king of the Frost Giants. This is Odin's last-ditch attempt to stop the Frost Giants from conquering the Nine Realms. He's successful (sigh of relief here), and seizes their weapon - the Casket of Ancient Winters. Back to Thor himself. The blonde Norse god starts off as a bit of a' well, to put it bluntly, a bit of a dick. He gets filled with righteous fury when he hears that a Frost Giant somehow made its way to Asgard, and almost got its hands on the Casket of Ancient Winters, during his coronation ceremony. Talk about bad timing. To settle matters - and against the wishes of his father Odin - Thor, his brother Loki, and their friends (well, Thor's friends: Sif, Volstagg, Fandral, and Hogun) voyage to the home of the Frost Giants to settle the score. Idiots. Odin comes and saves them from almost certain death, then exiles Thor to Earth. Odin enchants Thor's hammer Mjolnir with a spell that allows only the worthy to wield it. Devoid of his powers, immortality, and Mjolnir, Thor's bad luck continues when he gets hit by Dr Jane Foster's car in New Mexico, an astrophysicist who's accompanied by her intern Darcy and Dr Erik Selvig. They take him to hospital. Mjolnir is also found in New Mexico in a giant crater. After the locals have some fun trying to pull it out of the ground, S.H.I.E.L.D. descends and takes control of the area to study the mysterious artefact. Thor gets out of hospital, hears about Mjolnir, and decides he'd quite like it back. Unfortunately, he can't lift Mjolnir because he's not worthy. S.H.I.E.L.D. captures him, but Dr Selvig talks him out of captivity.  Back in Asgard, Loki finds out he's a Frost Giant and was adopted by Odin. Confronting him, the exertion of arguing and of exiling his eldest son uses up the last of Odin's energy and sends him into a deep sleep. Loki takes his chance and ascends to Asgard's throne. The two-faced trickster then goes to Laufey and proposes that he kill Odin and steal back the Casket of Ancient Winters. Sif and the rest of Thor's friends aren't very happy with Loki being king and try to get Thor back from Exile. Using the Bifrost bridge, the four voyage to Earth. Loki finds out and sends the Destroyer after them, an almost invincible metal being. The friends find Thor in New Mexico and fight the Destroyer, but to save his friends Thor suffers an especially nasty blow and is close to death. But have no fear! This giant selfless act means Thor is finally worthy of wielding Mjolnir. Bam! The hammer returns to Thor, and using the godly powers that have been returned to him he destroys the Destroyer. Deciding it's about time they confronted Loki and returned back home, that's exactly what Thor and his friends do, leaving Dr Foster and co on earth. Loki is a tricksy fiend, however, and betrays Laufey just as the Frost Giant king is about to kill Odin. Using Laufey's attack as an excuse, Loki tries to destroy the home of the Frost Giants using the unbridled power of the Bifrost. All he seeks is Odin's approval. Poor Loki (but seriously, chill out). Thor arrives just in time to stop his master plan. The whole family are reunited when Odin arrives to save the brothers from plummeting to their deaths off the destroyed Bifrost, but realising that Odin will never forgive him, Loki seems to (yeah, seems to) commit suicide by falling into the never ending abyss below. Thor decides he's not ready to be king. Dr Foster isn't content with forgetting about Asgard, and searches for a way to open a path to the otherworldly realm back on Earth. But wait, it's not over yet. An after-credits scene shows Selvig meeting Nick Fury. Showing him a mysterious object in a briefcase, Fury mentions it has untapped power - and in the mirror we see Loki instructing Selvig to agree. Uh oh. Nick Fury has something cube-shaped and powerful in his possession
S.H.I.E.L.D. know about Thor and the Asgardians.
Dr Selvig is working with S.H.I.E.L.D., and is controlled by Loki... and Loki wants Fury's mysterious object.
Don't trust Loki. Like, ever. It'd be an understatement to say that a bunch of scientists are very surprised when they find an old aircraft frozen in the Arctic ice. But before they explore it further, the mission jumps to 1942, when Johann Schmidt, a Nazi officer, seizes a powerful ancient relic called the Tesseract from Filch. Yes, as in the moody janitor from Harry Potter. Jump to New York in 1942. Steve Rogers wants to serve his country, but fails every health test when he tries to enrol in the army. Lamenting about it to his friend Sgt. James "Bucky" Barnes, Dr Abraham Erskine overhears Steve's disappointment and recruits him into a secret super-soldier programme. Even though Agent Peggy Carter agrees with Dr Erskine that Steve is the right man for the job, they still have to convince Colonel Chester Phillips. After Steve shields other army recruits from what he thought was a live grenade, Colonel Phillips agrees he's the right choice. Back in Germany, Schmidt and his scientist Dr Arnim Zola use the powers of the Tesseract to create devastating weaponised technology. Having found out his former associate Dr Erskine is in the USA, and knowing that Dr Erskine is the only one who can create the super-soldier formula, Schmidt sends an assassin to kill him. Steve undergoes the super soldier experiment and becomes taller and a hell of a lot stronger, with quicker reflexes to boot. The assassin kills Dr Erskine. Damn it. Steve chases and catches the assassin, who swallows a cyanide pill after muttering "Hail Hydra". Now that the super soldier formula is lost with Dr Erskine's death, Colonel Phillips has to let go of his dream of a super soldier army and Steve is turned into a propaganda tool to sell war bonds to the public instead.  While touring, Steve finds out that Bucky and his squad are MIA. He rescues Bucky and his team from a Hydra base being used by Schmidt with Agent Carter's help. But before he battles Schmidt, the Nazi officer rips off his face to reveal it was a mask all along, hiding his true appearance as a fiend with a red skull underneath. Shudder. Steve returns to base with Bucky and the other soldiers to much celebration. But he's not done yet. With a group of friends he attacks a series of Hydra bases. Oh, and he finally gets his trademark vibranium, practically-indestructible shield. The team target a train carrying Dr Zola and capture him, but Bucky falls to his death from the train tracks. Steve is kind of sad about it. After interrogating Zola, Colonel Phillips finds out the location of the last Hydra base. Steve does his duty and heads there sharpish. Following a scuffle with a couple of hundred Nazis, Steve finds out that Schmidt is going to use the weapons stored there to attack American cities. Thanks to a super fast car, Steve clambers onto Schmidt's aircraft just as he's about to leave on his bombing mission. He fights Schmidt on the flight deck, but during the struggle the Tesseract's container splinters. Schmidt foolishly holds onto the object with his bare hands and splinters into nothing. Burning with a bright light, the Tesseract dissolves through the plane's floor and ends up in the ocean. Landing the plane would detonate its weapons, so Steve crashes it into the Arctic. Months later Tony Stark's dad finds the Tesseract, but is unable to hunt down Steve. Steve Rogers is missing, presumed KIA. However, the super soldier wakes up in a room made to look like it comes from 1940. Escaping its confines, he discovers he's in modern-day New York. Enter Nick Fury, who has a special mission for him 
Bucky is dead. Promise.
Howard Stark had the Tesseract back in the 1940s. Captain America is now living in the present day
The Avengers  Now you've met almost all of them, it's time to get the dream team together in The Avengers. It kicks off with some ominous talk between Loki and an alien race called the Chitauri who want the Tesseract, the powerful artifact. They promise him an army to rule over Earth with if he gets them the shiny blue cube. Then he's bequeathed a special staff - one that can make people do his bidding. Creepy. At S.H.I.E.L.D., their main facility is evacuated after the Tesseract (being studied by Dr Selvig) starts to act strange. Trickster Loki turns up, steals the blue cube, and uses his fancy staff to brainwash Clint Barton (Hawkeye) and Dr Selvig. Fury isn't too happy about this so he resurrects the Avengers Initiative with Agent Coulson, sending Natasha Romanov, the Black Widow (you'll get your mission eventually, we promise) to Calcutta to get Bruce Banner on side. Tony Stark and Steve Rogers also join the team. Brainwashed Hawkeye and Loki try to steal some iridium to stabilize the Tesseract, but both end up being caught by The Avengers. Thor tries to kidnap Loki to take him to Asgard and he and Iron Man throw a few punches at each other, but in the end everyone agrees Loki will be most secure in the vault meant for the Hulk on S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Helicarrier (a big, armoured plane-ship-thing in the sky). Steve, Tony, and Bruce figure out that S.H.I.E.L.D. want to use the Tesseract to create super weapons. They're a bit pissed off at this revelation. An argument ensues, but before they can start insulting each others mothers more of Loki's brainwashed soldiers attack the Helicarrier. Then everything bad happens all at once.  Bruce turns into the Hulk, destroys everything in his path, and eventually plummets into a ruined building. Thor gets tricked into going into Loki's cell, and is ejected from the Helicarrier in the super-prison. Loki kills Agent Coulson. One of the helicarrier's engines fails (and is kicked back into gear by Steve, Tony, and teamwork. On the plus side, Clint gets hit really hard by Natasha, which puts a stop to his brainwashing. In New York, Loki combines the machine Dr Selvig's been building with the Tesseract to open a wormhole that lets the Chitauri through. General mayhem ensues as all the Avengers arrive in New York to fight the alien menace. Loki is smashed into the floor by the Hulk, breaking his mind control spell over Dr Selvig. Natasha finds Dr Selvig, and the two figure out that Loki's staff can shut the machine keeping the wormhole open. But they don't quell the threat quickly enough for international powers-that-be, who send a nuclear rocket to annihiliate New York. Fury informs Tony that it's heading his way. Doing a very superhero-ish thing, Tony flies the rocket through the wormhole and puts it on a collision course with the Chitauri mothership, which explodes into a big ball o' fire. Natasha closes the wormhole with just enough time for the unconscious Stark to fall back to earth. On his way down, he's caught by the Hulk and brought back to life by his roar. Aww. With the alien threat eliminated, the Avengers are now well and truly a team. Loki is taken back to Asgard by Thor, and everyone leaves to do their own thing. The Chitauri leader tells his master that things haven't quite gone to plan... and reveals that the mind behind the attack is none other than Thanos, the Mad Titan. Uh oh. Thanos is behind the attack on New York
Thanos therefore wants the Tesseract
There was a lot of damage to New York thanks to the superheroes' antics 
Iron Man 3  Back in 1999, Tony Stark attends a New Year's Eve party where he meets scientist Maya Hansen who's developing an experimental regenerative treatment called Extremis, which should repair crippling injuries if she works out the 'kinks'. Another scientist Aldrich Killian tries to connect with Stark and Hansen, but Stark rejects him. Months after the battle of New York, Stark is suffering from PTSD and, unable to sleep, he throws himself into improving his suits (such as implanting devices in his arm which can remotely control them). This creates problems between him and Pepper. Pepper is back running Stark Industries and meets with a much-changed Killian who tries to get her to invest in his new technology, but she turns him down. Meanwhile a string of bombings by a terrorist known as the Mandarin has intelligence agencies stumped, but when Happy gets caught and severely injured in the latest attack, Tony issues a threat to the Mandarin on live television giving out his home address. The Mandarin responds by destroying his home. Stark survives (barely) - as do Pepper and Maya, who arrived at the house just before the attack to speak to Tony - but wakes up in his suit mid-flight on his way to rural Tennessee where he was following the trail of the Mandarin bombings. Battered and running low on energy, his suit shuts down making it impossible for him to get home, leaving the world to think he's dead. He manages to get a message to Pepper (who is hiding out with Maya), who in turn tells Maya she thinks her boss is working with the Mandarin.  He hides his broken suit in 10-year-old Harley's garage and the pair go to the scene of the bombing that Stark was researching. Stark then tries to gets in touch with the bomber's mother and finds her in a bar while she's waiting for someone else. Mandarin agents Brandt and Savin (the people she was waiting for) turn up and attack Stark, which is when he realises that the bombings aren't bombings at all. The 'bombers' are all veterans who have been treated with Extremis to grow back missing limbs, but in some cases the patients have explosively rejected the treatment. In those it doesn't blow up, Extremis gives super strength and other heat-based abilities. Stark escapes Brandt and Savin (with the help of Harley) and tracks the Mandarin to Miami where he infiltrates his headquarters using improvised weapons (all his other suits are buried under the rubble which used to be his house). There he realises that the Mandarin is actually British actor Trevor Slattery who's just been playing a part and doesn't realise what's been happening in his name. Tony is captured and awakens to find it's really Killian who's behind everything. He used Maya's Extremis technology on himself and then adapted the programme to include veterans and has been using them and the faux Mandarin, to push his agenda. He reveals to Tony that he's also captured Pepper and used Extremis on her, and when Maya tries to stop him, he kills her. 
Killian has also manipulated the government into sending Rhodey's War Machine - now rebranded as the Iron Patriot - to his headquarters where he strings him up and forces him out of the suit, so that his lacky can wear it to accompany the President on Air Force One.  Tony escapes when his suit in Tennessee restarts and he uses his remote control implants to bring it to him. He and Rhodey team up to try and warn the President and save Pepper who Killian's taken with him. Stark arrives on Air Force One and kills the Mandarin agent wearing the Iron Patriot suit and saves a number of people who were falling to their death, but the President is nowhere to be found and his suit is destroyed (again). They trace Killian to an impounded, damaged oil tanker where he intends to kill the President on live television so that the Vice President, his puppet, can take over. Stark calls all his other suits (which have finally been unearthed from the rubble and are remotely controlled by J.A.R.V.I.S.) to attack Killian's agents while he attempts to rescue Pepper, and Rhodey tries to save the President. Rhodey secures the President, but Pepper seemingly falls to her death and Tony and Killian fight with Stark eventually seeming to win. Extremis has made Killian almost indestructible though and it's eventually Pepper, who has survived her fall thanks to Extremis, who kills him. After the battle, Tony orders J.A.R.V.I.S. to destroy all his suits as a sign to Pepper that he will no longer be obsessed with his work, and he later stabilises her Extremis effects so she's no longer in danger. He also undergoes surgery to remove the shrapnel fragments near his heart, but maintains that he will always be Iron Man. In the post-credits scene, Stark wakes up Bruce Banner who's fallen asleep listening to his story and it's revealed that the whole mission was just Tony telling him what had happened to him in recent months. Pepper is back running Stark Industries
War Machine has been rebranded as Iron Patriot (don't worry, it's not going to catch on)
Tony Stark no longer has shrapnel trying to kill him every day
Dark Elf Malekith seeks to unleash a weapon known as the Aether on the Nine Realms, but Thor's grandfather, Bor, defeats his forces and contains the Aether in a stone column, unaware that Malekith and a handful of Dark Elves have escaped in suspended animation on one of their ships. In the present day, Thor takes Loki and the Tesseract back to Asgard after the events of The Avengers where his father Odin locks Loki away and stores the Tesseract safety in the vaults. Thor then continues to bring peace back to the Nine Realms after the reconstruction of the Bifr'st with the help of his warrior friends and Asgard's forces. The Asgardians also realise that the Convergence, a rare alignment of the Nine Realms, is about to happen and as it approaches, portals linking the worlds appear at random. On Earth, Jane and Darcy are in London investigating one of those portals when Jane gets sucked into it and is transported to another world where she's infected by the Aether. Heimdall alerts Thor that he can no longer see Jane and Thor panics and travels to Earth just in time to see Jane come back through the portal. They briefly reunite before Thor realises something is wrong with Jane and transports her back to Asgard for help. Odin tells him to send her back until he recognises the Aether in her and tells Thor that it will not only kill Jane, but bring about a catastrophic prophecy. Malekith is awakened by the Aether's release and attacks Asgard to try and get it back. Thor's mother Frigga is killed protecting Jane and Malekith is forced to flee without her. Odin orders Thor to keep Jane at Asgard while they fortify their defences, but Thor knows that Jane will die if he does nothing so he reluctancy teams-up with Loki to secretly escape Asgard.  They travel to the Dark Elf homeworld and use Jane to lure Malekith out. Once he arrives, Loki tricks Malekith into drawing the Aether out of Jane, but Thor's attempt to destroy the exposed substance fails and Malekith merges with it and leaves on his ship. Loki, who was mortally wounded during the attack, seemingly dies in Thor arms. Jane and Thor discover a portal to Earth in a nearby cave and travel back to London where they reunite with Darcy and Dr. Erik Selvig, who was briefly imprisoned after running around Stonehenge naked due the mental trauma he received at the hands of Loki in The Avengers. He's spent the last few month studying the Convergence and has developed equipment which can transport people through the portals. He's also realised that the people who lived after the last Convergence have built objects around England to act as a map to where the Convergence will reach its peak. They realise that Malekith plans to unleash the Aether at the center of the Convergence in Greenwich so that he can destroy all Nine Realms at once and rush to stop him. Thor battles Malekith through various portals around Greenwich, but the pair are separated, allowing Malekith to unleash the Aether into the portals. Thor finds his way back to Greenwich just in time to help Jane use Erik's scientific equipment to transport Malekith back to his homeworld where he's crushed by his own ship. Thor returns to Asgard where he tells Odin he can't take the throne because he wants to be with Jane and returns to Earth. After he leaves, Odin transforms into Loki who is alive and is impersonating Odin. In one of the post-credits scene, Thor's friends Volstagg and Sif take the Aether to the Collector telling him that with the Tesseract already in Asgard's vaults, it would be a bad idea to have a second Infinity Stone so close by. As they leave, the Collector states his desire to get the other five Stones. Thor is on Earth with Jane
The Aether is a powerful Infinity Stone and is in the hands of the Collector
The Tesseract is another powerful Infinity Stone and is at Asgard
Loki is ruling Asgard by imprisoning Odin, but we don't know where the real Odin is
It all starts with a classic Captain America action sequence. Cap, Black Widow, and a S.H.I.E.L.D. team are sent to rescue hostages on board a hijacked ship. They prevail, but in the process Cap sees his fellow Avenger recovering some data from the main computer, almost jeopardizing the entire rescue mission. Cut to Washington, and after the events of The Avengers the world has changed. S.H.I.E.L.D., keen to stay one step ahead of global and extraterrestrial terrorism has created Project Insight - a trio of always-flying Hellcarriers that can strike any target, anywhere in the world, at any time. Cap - who is slowly adjusting to the century - takes issue with this, and argues with Nick Fury about the necessity of the project. Fury, seeing Cap's point of view, tries to access the documents surrounding the project but is denied. When he drives to meet a fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. agent there's an attempt on his life, which he narrowly escapes. And whereas Fury is able to outsmart the regular goons sent after him, he's almost taken down by a mysterious assassin known as The Winter Soldier. Later that day Cap returns home to find Fury in his apartment. The S.H.I.E.L.D. leader is then shot, and apparently dies, but not before he hands Cap the data stick Black Widow obtained on the ship at the start of the mission. After watching Fury's unsuccessful surgery, Rogers is questioned by Alexander Pierce - a senior S.H.I.E.L.D. official - about why Fury was in his apartment. He refuses to discuss it, and later that day Pierce brands Cap a fugitive, leading to a thrilling battle as the super soldier escapes S.H.I.E.L.D. HQ.  Working with Black Widow, the pair visit a military bunker in New Jersey, where Rogers trained before his transformation, and they discover that HYDRA (the evil, world-consuming organisation we saw in the first Captain America mission) has been growing inside S.H.I.E.L.D., and controls many of its members including Pierce. Cap and Romanov are almost killed by an incoming missile strike, and they seek the help of Sam 'Falcon' Wilson, a former US pararescueman who pilots an advanced flight suit, to strike back at Project Insight. The trio target Jasper Sitwell, who they know to be a HYDRA mole, and he reveals that Insight - in the hands of Pierce and HYDRA - is all about eliminating undesirables and controlling the world's population. They're ambushed, however, by the Winter Soldier who Cap eventually recognises as his childhood friend Bucky Barnes, just before they escape. We later learn that Bucky was healed by HYDRA after his fall, and programmed to become a loyal assassin, being put in and taken out of a cryostasis device as and when needed. Cap, Falcon, and Black Widow hatch a plan to strike at S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters to try and change the targeting chips inside each of Insight's three Hellcarriers. They infiltrate the Triskelion and call upon all loyal S.H.I.E.L.D. members to rise up against the HYDRA traitors. Pierce is outed as a traitor, and Fury (who isn't dead! Yay!) turns up to kill him, while all the secrets of HYDRA's infiltration are leaked to the entire world. Cap faces off against the Winter Soldier onboard the third and final Hellcarrier, and although the fight leaves Bucky incapacitated, Cap helps him escape the wreckage. Bucky then saves Cap when the Hellcarrier hits the Potomac river, after which he disappears into the woods. The final scenes see Romanov interrogated by a Senate committee for her covert operations, which were part of the leaked HYDRA/S.H.I.E.L.D. data, but she walks out on it. In the post-credit scenes we see a secret HYDRA cell working on a special project, and Bucky Barnes visits the Smithsonian to look at' a history of himself. S.H.I.E.L.D. has secretly been HYDRA for years and is now effectively disbanded
The Winter Soldier is actually Bucky and he's on the run
Cap and Sam are trying to find him
Sam Wilson is Falcon
Guardians of the Galaxy  In the opening scene we see a young Peter Quill saying goodbye to his mother, who dies in hospital handing him an Awesome Mix tape. He runs outside and' is abducted by an alien ship. Cut to years later, and Quill is all grown up, calling himself Star-Lord, a hunting for an orb on a dead planet. He finds his treasure, but is attacked by a minion of Ronan - the mission's big bad - before escaping in his ship. Who is Ronan? He's a Kree fanatic tasked with getting the orb for Thanos, because' spoilers' it contains an Infinity Stone. Quill heads to Xandar to sell the orb to a broker, but the buyer refuses to take it after learning Ronan wants it and, when he's thrown out of the shop, he gets in a fight with Gamora - one of Thanos' adopted daughters - who is there to retrieve the orb. Bounty hunters Rocket and Groot get involved too, because they're on Xandar to collect a reward for bagging 'Star-Lord', and all four of them end up getting arrested and sent to prison. Here they meet an inmate called Drax, whose family was murdered by Ronan, and the five of them form an unlikely alliance to escape. They then head to Knowhere, a rough and ready mining colony, to sell the orb to The Collector, who is willing to pay big for it. He unlocks the orb to reveal the Infinity Stone inside, but one of his slaves makes a grab for it in an attempt to escape and ends up destroying The Collector's museum. Meanwhile, Drax has informed Ronan of their whereabouts because he's desperate to confront his enemy. Sadly, the Kree fanatic almost kills Drax with ease, and one of Thanos' other adopted daughters - Nebula - takes the orb and gives it to Ronan. Quill and Gamora are picked up in deep space by a crew of Ravagers, lead by Yondu Udonta - Star-Lord's former Captain and the alien who originally abducted him as child - and held captive by them. Why? Yondu was the one who sent Quill to retrieve the orb in the first place' but Quill decided to keep it for himself. Groot, Rocket, and Drax find the Ravager ship and get invited on board, where they get together with Quill and Gamora to try and hatch a plan to recover the orb and the Infinity Stone inside.  Ronan decides to keep the Infinity Stone for himself, defying Thanos, and uses it to attack Xandar. His ship - The Dark Aster - shows up, but the Nova Corps is waiting for it thanks to a warning from Star-Lord. Rocket blasts a hole in the side of the Dark Aster and Quill, Drax, Groot, and Gamora fly through it to confront Ronan from the inside. To buy them time, the Nova Corps form a net by joining their ships, to prevent the Dark Aster from landing (if the Infinity Stone touches the ground it will destroy the entire planet). Gamora confronts Nebula, and the sisters fight, while the rest of the team push towards Ronan's throne room. They blast Ronan with a canon, but he's too powerful for them, and the team are only saved when Rocket crashes his ship into the Dark Aster's control room, forcing the vessel to crash. The team is saved from the impact by Groot, who weaves a wooden shield around them with his body, dying in the process. Ronan survives too, and is just about to destroy the planet with the Infinity Stone when Quill distracts him with a dance-off, and Rocket shoots the stone from Ronan's grasp. With their combined strength, the whole team is able to hold it long enough to blast Ronan into atoms and save Xandar. The stone is then held in a vault in Xandar (after Quill pretends to hand it over to Yondu), and it's revealed to Quill that he's not pure human, which is probably why he could hold the Infinity Stone for a short period of time without dying. The team - who are now officially known as Guardians of the Galaxy - head out on a new adventure. Rocket has saved a piece of Groot, and is growing a new version of him in a pot, as the credits roll. The Power Infinity Stone is currently in the Nova Corps vault on Xandar
Quill's mum is dead, and he doesn't know who his father is
Yondu and his crew of Ravagers sort of raised him
Quill isn't just human... he's also something else
Gamora and Nebula are the adopted daughters of Thanos
Groot is dead but Baby Groot has been born
It all starts with a battle. The Avengers are assaulting a HYDRA stronghold, where Wolfgang von Strucker has been running experiments on Loki's staff, stolen at the end of The Avengers. The team encounter Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver on the battlefield, but Tony Stark manages to grab the staff and take it back to Stark Tower. There he and Banner run experiments on it to try and create Ultron - an AI capable of protecting the planet. They appear to fail 
While the team are at a party (where Black Widow and Banner admit their feelings for each other) Ultron is born and kills JARVIS, who attempts to shut him down. He then takes control of several Iron Legion robots and crashes the party, where he fights the Avengers. When they defeat him Ultron retreats into the internet and begins building an army of robots from the HYDRA facility where Loki's staff was being kept. But Ultron also wants to build himself a body, so he tracks down smuggler Ulysses Klaue who has stolen a stack of Vibranium from the nation of Wakanda. The Avengers attempt to shut him down, but most of the team are incapacitated by Scarlet Witch, and Ultron escapes with his metal. During the battle, Scarlet Witch also infects The Hulk with her visions, and he begins to tear up a nearby city. Tony Stark is forced to call in Hulkbuster Iron Man to stop him, but the damage is done, and the world starts to lose trust in the Avengers - especially the Hulk. The team is forced to lay low, which they do on Hawkeye's farm (where they discover he has a lovely family). Nick Fury is waiting for them, and tells them the only way to stop Ultron is by fighting together. Oh, and by tracking down Ultron's new body before it's ready to be infused with his personality. Meanwhile Ultron has enlisted the (unwilling) help of Dr Helen Cho, who has built a body for him out of Vibranium, replicated human tissue, and the Mind Infinity Stone which was in Loki's staff. He reveals his true intentions to wiped out the human race to Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver who abandon him because... well, that's just a little too evil for their liking. The Avengers show up to steal Ultron's new body, and after a massive fight they manage to get it back to Stark and Banner to be destroyed, but not before Ultron captures Black Widow. Stark insists on attempting to try and implant JARVIS (who isn't dead and has been holding his own against Ultron within the internet this whole time - yay!) in the body believing it's the only way to stop Ultron, and the rest of the team arrive too late to stop him. The end result is The Vision, who agrees to fight alongside the Avengers against Ultron, who they've finally tracked to the city of Sokovia. When they arrive Ultron has - believe it - put booster jets under the whole city, which he plans to raise into the atmosphere before crashing it back down to earth as a meteor, wiping out the human race. Jerk. The Avengers show up and, joined by Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver, attempt to both evacuate the city while it's floating upwards AND destroy Ultron and all his minions. Vision manages to lock Ultron out of the internet, so he can't transfer his consciousness, and the rest of the team scrap all his robot army. Iron Man works out how to destroy the booster jets on the city, but decides to wait until it's entirely evacuated. Near the end, Quicksilver saves Hawkeye's life and dies from his bullet-wounds, but the rest of the Avengers - with the help of Nick Fury (who shows up with a couple of Hellcarriers) - manage to get everyone out of the city before Thor and Iron Man completely destroy it. Banner is last seen flying away in a stealth jet, to try and keep away from the team and avoid The Hulk's damaged reputation. Vision catches up with the final Ultron robot, and destroys it, completely wiping the AI from the face of the earth. Back at the new Avengers HQ, Black Widow and Captain America begin to oversee the training of the new members of the Avengers: Vision, Falcon, Scarlet Witch, and War Machine. The Vision has the Mind Infinity Stone implanted in his head
Ulysses Klaue is a Vibranium smuggler, and he lost his arm to Ultron
Vibranium comes from Wakanda
Black Widow and Bruce Banner are into each other
No-one knows where Bruce Banner/The Hulk is
Ant-Man  Scott Lang has just been released from prison and is trying to start a new life, but he's struggling to hold down a job because of his criminal record. Needing money for his daughter's child support, his friend and flatmate, Luis, talks him into breaking into a house to steal the contents of a safe, but all he finds inside is a weird looking suit... so he takes it. Because of course! After getting the suit home, he tries it on and discovers that it can make him shrink to the size of an ant. Freaking out he tries to return the suit, but gets arrested in the process. While in jail, Hank Pym - former S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist and owner of the suit - makes contact with him and persuades him to break out using the suit. Once the pair come face-to-face, Pym reveals that he manipulated Scott's friend into purseuading him to steal the suit because he believes Scott could be the next Ant-Man. It turns out Hank developed the serum that shirks whoever wears the suit, and he used to do it himself to save the world. He left S.H.I.E.L.D. once he found out they were trying to recreate his serum and hid the suit away. His former student, Darren Cross - who forced him out of his own company some years ago with the help of his estranged daughter Hope van Dyne - is close to perfecting his version of the serum and Hank needs help stopping him before he sells it to the highest bidder. Realising how dangerous the serum could be in the wrong hands, Hope has returned to her Dad to help him, but thinks she should be using his suit to stop Cross and doesn't understand why he wants Lang to have it.  Lang agrees to become Ant-Man so he can become the father his daughter deserves, and helps Hope realise that her dad is just trying to protect her. They talk and Hank finally reveals what happened to Hope's mum, Janet van Dyne. Janet used to help save the world alongside her husband using a suit called The Wasp, but she disappeared into a subatomic quantum realm when she had to shrink smaller than atoms to disable a Soviet nuclear missile. Hank warns Lang that the same thing could happen to him if he's not careful and he and Hope set about training him to master the suit's abilities. Once Lang's training is complete, Hank sends him to what he thinks is an abandoned Stark warehouse to retrieve a device which will help with their plan. Unfortunately, it's actually the newly acquired Avengers headquarters and he gets into a fight with the Falcon, but manages to steal the device they need. Everything you need to know about Ant-Man and the Wasp
In the meantime, Cross has perfected his serum and the Yellowjacket suit and is preparing to show it off at an unveiling ceremony at Pym Technologies. Lang, Pym, and van Dyne - along with the help of Luis and his criminal buddies - break into Pym Technologies to stop Cross, but get captured. Cross plans to sell the Yellowjacket and Ant-Man suits to HYDRA, but Lang breaks free and he and van Dyne fight back. They win the fight, but Cross escapes and Hank is shot in the process. Lang goes after Cross, who has put on the Yellowjacket suit and takes Lang's daughter hostage to lure him into a fight. The pair use their suits to try and defeat each other, but in the end, Lang has to shrink to subatomic size to penetrate Cross' titanium suit and destroy it. Cross dies in the process, but Lang seems to be lost to the quantum realm until he's able to reserve the shrinking process and return to normal size. His return makes Hank wonder if it's possible his wife may one day come back 
The mission ends with Luis telling Lang that Sam Wilson, AKA the Falcon, is looking for him, and in the mid-credits scene, Hank shows Hope a new Wasp prototype suit designed for her. The post-credits scene sees Wilson and Steve Rogers with Bucky Barnes in their custody talking about how they can't ask Tony Stark for help because of 'the accords' - Wilson says he knows someone who could help. Scott Lang is Ant-Man and has to ability to shrink to the size of an ant
Hank Pym used to be Ant-Man and his wife, Janet van Dyne, used to fight with him as The Wasp and has been presumed dead for many years
Ant-Man and the Falcon had a fight
Wilson and Rogers have found Bucky
Those accords - they're going to be important, trust me! Would you trust an international government to dictate when and where your superpowers should be used? Steve Rogers doesn't. Tony Stark does. The incident at Sokovia where people died during the Avengers' attempt to stop Ultron has set public opinion against the superheroes. Not good. After a mission goes wrong in Lagos and several Wakandan humanitarian workers get accidentally killed by Wanda Maximoff, the world's governments decide it's not a good idea to let enhanced humans run free without supervision. Meanwhile Helmut Zemo finds and kills one of the people who brainwashed Bucky, stealing the notebook with the words that will trigger his brainwashing again. 
When the Avengers and the United Nations are at a conference in Vienna to sign the Sokovia Accord (which will give the UN control over the Avengers), a huge explosion supposedly set off by the brainwashed Bucky kills T'Challa's father, the King of Wakanda. T'Challa vows that he'll kill Bucky. Wanting to save his friend, Steve finds out that Bucky is hiding in Bucharest and travels with Sam Wilson (Falcon) to find Bucky before a very angry T'Challa does. A chase ensues as T'Challa and the security forces get to Bucky just after the security services do, but before Steve can get his old buddy safely away James Rhodes and the international police track them down and arrest all of them.  Bucky is put in a secure container and taken with Steve, Sam, and T'Challa to a secure government facility while Wanda is kept at the Avengers headquarters by Vision. Unknown to them, Zemo gains access to the facility too by impersonating a psychiatrist, and gains control over Bucky by reading the words from the notebook. Under his instructions Bucky wreaks havoc at the facility, covering Zemo's escape. Steve gets his friend safely away and discovers that Zemo is the real Vienna bomber and plans to wake up five more winter soldiers from an old Hydra base, who are currently in cryogenic stasis. Steve decides that they can't wait for international approval and gets Sam, Wanda, Clint Barton (Hawkeye), and Scott Lang (Antman) on his side. When they attempt to use a jet to get to the Hydra base first, they find Tony is already there with his own team: Natasha Romanoff, Vision, James, T'Challa, and Peter Parker (Spider-man). The two groups fight, but Natasha ends up switching sides and helps Steve and Bucky escape to a jet. In their attempt to stop the jet, James ends up getting shot in the back and plummets to the ground mid-flight, paralyzing his legs. Those fighting on Steve's side get imprisoned for going against the Sokovia Accord. The two make it to the Hydra base and find Zemo there waiting for them, along with Tony who got Sam to tell him the location of the base. The three decide not to fight, and meet Zemo who tells that that he's killed the other winter soldiers and reveals he lost his family at the Sokovia disaster. Zemo then shows them footage of the murder of Tony's parents, which was carried out by none other than Bucky. Tony fights both Steve and Bucky in his rage, destroying Bucky's robotic arm at the same time. Steve manages to break Tony's armour and flees with Bucky, leaving his shield behind. Outside the facility Zemo attempts suicide now that he thinks he's avenged his family, but is stopped by T'Challa. The Wakandan king decides against revenge, having seen how it consumed Zemo. Once the dust has settled Tony provides James with a high-tech brace for his leg, and Steve frees his allies from the government's high-security prison. Bucky retreats to Wakanda where he has asylum, and is put into cryogenic sleep to wait until Shuri finds a cure for his brainwashing. Thor and Bruce Banner are still missing
Bucky is waiting for his brainwashing to be cured in Wakanda
The Avengers have split: on Captain America's side is Falcon, Antman, Wanda, Bucky, and Hawkeye. On Tony Stark's side is Spider-man, Black Widow, Vision, Black Panther, and War Machine - although we don't know if his legs being partly paralysed means he can wear the War Machine suit any more
Steve has broken his side out of the floating prison and they're now in hiding from Tony Stark and the United Nations' until they're needed again 
Doctor Strange  Doctor Stephen Strange is a brilliant, but arrogant neurosurgeon who gets into a car accident, which almost completely cripples his hands, effectively ending his career. He tries everything to get back his skill, but nothing works until he hears about a paraplegic who mysteriously regained use of his legs. He finds the former paraplegic who tells him to go to Kamar-Taj and there he meets Mordo and the Ancient One, both powerful sorcerers who can manipulate the world around them and travel to other dimensions. Strange is skeptical at first, but the Ancient One demonstrates her power and then reluctantly agrees to teach Strange at the behest of Mordo.  Strange studies under the Ancient One and Mordo, and from ancient books in the library guarded by master Wong. He learns that the Earth is guarded from threats from other dimensions by three Sanctums in New York, London, and Hong Kong (all connected and accessed through portals from Kamar-Taj) which are in turn guarded by three sorcerers. Strange has a gift for sorcerary and progresses quickly, even learning how to bend time with the Eye of Agamotto. Mordo and Wong catch him and warn him against messing with the natural law.  Sorcerer Kaecilius - the Ancient One's former student - seeks to unleash Dormammu of the Dark Dimension on the world believing that everyone will live forever because time doesn't exist in the Dark Dimension (that's not how it works). To bring Dormammu forth Kaecilius must destroy all the Sanctums and takes down the London Sanctum first. Then he attacks the New York Sanctum, but Strange is accidentally pulled through the portal from Kamar-Taj into the battle, and manages to fight them off. Not bad given he's a newbie! Kaecilius and his zealots escape and Strange has to go get patched up by his ex-girlfriend and fellow doctor Christine Palmer, but it's not all bad because during the fight the Cloak of Levitation (which was housed in the New York Sanctum) decides it kinda likes Strange so now he can fly!  12 Doctor Strange Easter eggs every Marvel fan needs to know about
Mordo and the Ancient One arrive and Strange reveals that he knows the Ancient One draws power from the Dark Dimension (Kaecilius told him while they were fighting), which Mordo is pretty upset about because the Ancient One always told him it was forbidden. Kaecilius and his followers attack the New York Sanctum again and this time the Ancient One is mortally wounded. Strange and Mordo rush to the Hong Kong Sanctum to find it already destroyed, Wong dead, and Dormammu breaking through, so Strange uses the Eye of Agamotto to turn back time to before the attack. Rather than fight Kaecilius though, Strange travels into the Dark Dimension and traps himself and Dormammu in a never-ending five second loop and basically' annoys the big bad into giving up. Yes, really. Dormammu takes Kaecilius and his zealots and leaves the Earth and in return Strange breaks the loop. Everyone is happy - except for Mordo who thinks Strange is just as bad as the Ancient One for winning by breaking the natural law and stalks off. Strange returns the Eye of Agamotto to Kamar-Taj where Wong reveals it contains an Infinity Stone - whaaaaaaaa! - and becomes the protector of the New York Sanctum. In the mid-credits scene, Strange decides to help Thor find his father Odin, so he and his troublesome brother Loki will leave Earth, and in the post-credits scene, Mordo steals power from the former paraplegic who sent Strange to Kamar-Taj, crippling him once again, declaring that Earth has "too many sorcerers". Both Doctor Strange and Master Wong are powerful sorcerers
Mordo thinks all the sorcerers are corrupt and is on a mission to stop them
The Eye of Agamotto contains the Time Infinity Stone
Thor and Loki are back on Earth looking for Odin - but why?
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2  The Guardians of the Galaxy protect some valuable batteries from an inter-dimensional monster for the Sovereign race in exchange for Gamora's sister Nebula, but after their mission, Rocket steals some of the batteries for himself so the Sovereign's leader, Ayesha, attacks the Milano. They Guardians are saved by a mysterious figure and crash-land on a nearby planet just in time for the mysterious figure to reveal he's Quill's Dad, Ego. He invites them to join him on his home planet and Quill, Gamora, and Drax agree while Rocket and Groot remain behind to fix the ship and guard Gamora. Ayesha hires Yondu and his crew - who have been exiled from the Ravager community for child trafficking - to capture the Guardians. They find and capture Rocket but when Yondu hesitates to do the same to Quill his subordinate Taserface leads a mutiny with the help of Nebula locking Yondu and Rocket in a cell on Yondu's ship and killing all his loyalists. Nebula leaves to find and kill Gamora who she blames for their father's torture of her during childhood, and Yondu and Rocket bond while imprisoned. Groot and Kraglin help Rocket and Yondu escape and they destroy the ship and everyone on it but not before Taserface has a chance to warn the Sovereign. Meanwhile Ego reveals to Quill that he's a god-like celestial being who created his home world by forming matter around his consciousness - he's literally the planet. Then he created a humanoid guise to travel the universe and eventually met and fell in love with Quill's mum Meredith. When she died he sent Yondu and his crew to get Quill but they never arrived back with him and Ego had been looking for him every since. He teaches Quill to manipulate celestial power as he does and the pair start to bond.  Meanwhile Ego reveals to Quill that he's a god-like celestial being who created his home world by forming matter around his consciousness - he's literally the planet. Then he created a humanoid guise to travel the universe and eventually met and fell in love with Quill's mum Meredith. When she died he sent Yondu and his crew to get Quill but they never arrived back with him and Ego had been looking for him every since. He teaches Quill to manipulate celestial power as he does and the pair start to bond. Nebula arrives and tries to kill Gamora but they come to an uneasy alliance when they find a cave full of skeletal remains. Ego reveals to Quill that he planted seedlings on thousands of worlds and can now terraform them into new extensions of himself, but they can only be activated by two celestial beings, so he impregnated countless females from different planets and alien races to and create a celestial offspring. He hired Yondu to collect all the children and when each of them failed to acquire any celestial power he killed them. (Yeah, he's evil.) Then he gave Quill's mum the brain tumour which killed her because he really liked her and she was too much of a distraction! (Yes, he's super evil.) Unsurprisingly, Quill doesn't take all of this very well, but Ego manipulates him into activating the seedlings, which begin to consume lots of different worlds including Earth.
Quill fights back and goes to find his friends. Mantis, Ego's empath servant, has grown close to Drax and warns him of Ego's plan. He tells Gamora and Nebula just time for Rocket, Yondu, Groot, and Kraglin to arrive, and then the Sovereign's army attacks. While under fire, the reunited Guardians find Ego's brain at the planet's core and plot to destroy it. Rocket makes a bomb using the stolen Sovereign batteries and Baby Groot plants it on the brain. Quill fights Ego with his newfound Celestial powers to distract him long enough for the other Guardians and co to escape. The bomb explodes and, with Ego dead, the planet starts to disintegrate. Yondu sacrifices himself to save Quill, who realises that the reason Yondu kept him all those years was because he realised what Ego was doing to his children, and wanted to protect him. Nebula decides to go and kill Thanos on her own and the Guardians hold a funeral for Yondu, which is attended by many Ravagers who have accepted him as one of their own again. In the post-credit scenes, Kraglin inherits Yondu's telekinetic arrow and fin, Groot becomes a teenager, and Ayesha creates an artificial being called Adam with which she plans to destroy the Guardians. Yondu is dead *sob*
Nebula has gone to kill Thanos
Groot is growing up
The Sovereigns hate the Guardians
Adrian Toomes and his salvage company are contracted to clean up New York after the events of The Avengers, but his operation is taken over by the Department of Damage Control, a partnership between Tony Stark, and the US government. Angry at losing business he decides to keep some of the alien technology he was supposed to be scrapping and use it to make and sell advanced weaponry. After the events of the last mission, Peter Parker returns to Queens to await another call for help from Tony Stark. Consumed with becoming a fully fledged member of the Avengers, Parker focuses on his crime-fighting activities, neglecting his studies and friends. One night, after stopping an ATM robbery, he returns home where his best friend Ned discovers his secret identity as Spider-Man. On another night, he tries to stop some of Toomes's lackeys from selling alien weapons, but Toomes shows up wearing some flying, Vulture-like armour and drops him into a lake. He has to be rescued by Iron Man who reveals to him that he's been tracking the suit and warns him to stay away from Toomes. On his way home, Peter finds part of one of the weapons and he and Ned study it, removing its power core. Toomes sends two of his associates to find it and they trace it to Peter's high school, but are unable to locate it. Peter does manage to put a tracking device on one of them though, which leads him to Maryland so he rejoins the school's academic decathlon team so he can accompany them to Washington, D.C. for their national tournament. Peter and Ned disable the tracker in the Spidey suit and unlock some advanced features Peter never knew about, including his own AI companion which he names Karen. Then he follows his tracker to where Toomes and co are trying to steal some more alien technology from a DDC truck. He manages to stop them, but gets trapped in the truck and misses the decathlon.  While trapped in the truck, he discovers that the power core Ned has is actually bomb and rushes back to stop it from going off. Unfortunately, he arrives too late and it detonates while Ned and his classmates - including his crush Liz - are in the Washington Monument elevator and Peter has to perform some daring stunts to save them. Determined to stop Toomes, Peter persuades a criminal to give up his location and plans an ambush on the Staten Island Ferry. Peter captures one criminal, but the Feds turn up, a malfunctioning weapon tears the Ferry in two, and Toomes escapes while Peter scrambles to save everyone on board. In the end, Iron Man has to save the day. Disappointed that Peter didn't listen to him - he was the one who alerted the Feds to Toomes's operation - Stark takes his Spidey suit away. In trouble with his Aunt May AND school, Peter returns to school life and eventually asks Liz to Homecoming, but on the night of the dance, discovers that Toomes is her Dad! Awkward. Toomes realises who Peter is and warns him to stay away, but he realises that Toomes plans to hijack a DDC plane carrying loads of valuable alien objects from Avengers Tower to the new headquarters, and leaves the dance to follow him. He dons his old Spidey suit and corners Toomes in his lair who destroys the buildings supports trapping Peter under the rubble. Peter escapes and intercepts the plane, forcing it to crash land on a nearby beach where he and Toomes continue to fight. Eventually, Peter saves Toomes' life when his malfunctioning Vulture suit explodes and he leaves him tied up for the police with all the Avengers tech. After her dad's arrest, Liz moves away and Peter turns Tony down when he asks him to join the Avengers full time and tries to give him a cool new Spidey suit. He does give him back his original suit though and Peter tries it on in his room just as his Aunt May walks in. In the mid-credits scene, another criminal approaches Toomes in prison saying there's a rumour going around that he knows Spider-Man's true identity, which Toomes denies. Peter's Spidey suit now has a load of cool new features including Karen
Also, Tony Stark built him a new, even better suit, which is at Avengers HQ. 
The Vulture knows Spider-Man's true identity
And so does Aunt May now...
Thor has been travelling the universe looking for the Infinity Stones (without much luck) and gets himself captured by Surtur who tells him that his father Odin is no longer on Asgard, and that when he unites his crown with the Eternal Flame in the vaults he will bring about Ragnarok. Thor defeats him and takes his crown back to Asgard for safekeeping where he discovers that Loki is posing as his father. He forces Loki to reveal himself and take him to where he left their father in a nursing home on Earth, but Odin is not there. With the help of Doctor Strange the brothers find their Dad in Norway, but he is dying and warns them that after he's gone, their sister (What?! They have a sister?!) Hela - the goddess of Death - will try and take over Asgard and the rest of the universe. He dies and Hela appears having been released from her prison. When Thor and Loki refuse to kneel to her, she destroys Thor's hammer Mjolnir and the pair try to escape using the Bifr'st Bridge, but she hitches a ride and pushes them out into space to die before arriving at Asgard. Once in Asgard, Hela destroys its army and uses the Eternal Flame to resurrect the ancient dead who once fought with her, including her giant wolf Fenris. Heimdall steals the sword that controls the Bifr'st preventing Hela from unleashing her army on other worlds and hides away with the rest of Asgard's citizens. Oh, and Hela points out that the Gauntlet in the vaults is a fake while taking a tour... Meanwhile, Thor falls out of the Bifr'st and crash-lands on Sakaar, a garbage planet surrounded by wormholes. He's promptly captured by a slave trader designated Scrapper 142 and sold to the ruler of Sakaar, The Grandmaster, who wants him to fight his champion in a gladiator-style battle. Thor gets all his hair cut off in preparation and discovers that Loki arrived on Sakaar some time ago (time works differently there) and has ingratiated himself with the Grandmaster, but won't help Thor escape. Thor goes to fight the Grandmaster's champion, but OMG, it's the Hulk! Yay - Thor is saved because they're friends from work! But wait' the Hulk doesn't recognise Thor and Bruce Banner is nowhere to be found. Thor is not saved and gets his ass kicked. He's the god of thunder though so he bounces back and just when it looks like he's going to win the Grandmaster zaps him using an electronic restraint put on him by Scrapper 142. Thor wakes up in Hulk's room and tries to convince him to help him escape and save Asgard. The Hulk isn't having any of it at first, but eventually persuades Scrapper 142 to hear Thor out. It turns out that 142 is actually an Asgardian and used to be a member of the Valkyrie - an elite female fighting force - but she's faced Hela before and has no desire to do so again. Eventually Thor escapes without their help and heads to the Quinjet that brought Hulk to Sakaar, but the Hulk follows him and is transformed back into Bruce Banner when he accidentally plays a recording of Natasha Romanoff. Bruce is shocked to learn that he's been the Hulk full-time for two years, but agrees to go along with Thor. The Grandmaster thinks Thor has captured his champion and orders everyone to find them. The Valkyrie decides to join Thor and captures Loki to prove her good will. Not wanting to be left behind Loki helps the group steal a ship they can escape on. Surprise, surprise Loki eventually tries to betray them all, but Thor sees it coming and leaves his brother behind escaping Sakaar with Bruce and Valkyrie.
They arrive just in time to see Hela and her forces attempting to kill everyone and steal back the Bifr'st sword. Bruce transforms into the Hulk and fights Hela's giant wolf while Thor and Valkyrie try to defeat her army of resurrected warriors. Loki arrives in a really big ship (along with a couple of other gladiators from Sakaar) and helps all the Asgardian civilians get on board. Thor loses an eye while fighting Hela, but has a vision of Odin which makes him realise that only Ragnarok can stop her, so he tells Loki to go put Surtur's crown in the Eternal Flame. On the way Loki stops to admire the Tesseract 
Surtur is reborn and destroys Asgard, seemingly killing Hela, while everyone else escapes on the really big ship. Thor is crowned King and decides to take his people to Earth, but in the mid-credits scene they are intercepted by an even larger spacecraft! Ooooooo, who does it belong to? The Gauntlet in Asgard's vaults was a fake
Asgard is no more and its people are refugees
Mjolnir has been destroyed
Thor has short hair and only one eye now
Loki probably has the Tesseract
That big ship probably belongs to a certain purple individual
Black Panther  Wakanda was once divided into warring tribes all fighting over a Vibranium-filled meteorite. Things were generally very bloody and not particularly good. That's until one fighter ate a heart-shaped herb, gaining superhuman reflexes and strength and becoming the first Black Panther. Uniting all of Wakanda except for the Jabari tribe, the country decides to hide its technological advancement from the world and poses as a Third-World country. The main story kicks off with a flashback to the '90s, where we find out that T'Challa's dad King T'Chaka sent his brother N'Jobu undercover to scout out America. Unfortunately N'Jobu quickly becomes disillusioned with Wakanda's isolationist policy and starts to smuggle Vibranium to America. His close friend - who N'Jobu thought was American - reveals himself to be Zuri, a Wakandan who has been keeping tabs on N'Jobu since his arrival. The King's brother is not particularly happy at this news, and is killed by T'Chaka as he resists arrest. To prevent civil war from breaking out in Wakanda, the King and Zuri agree to cover up his death. Jumping to the present day, T'Challa returns home after the events of the last mission, accompanied by Okoye, the general of his army, and his ex-girlfriend and Wakandan spy Nakia. Who he is totally still in love with, by the way. Reunited with his mother Ramonda and his technological-genius sister Shuri he's presented as the heir to the throne in front of all the Wakandan tribes. With the powers of the Black Panther expunged from his body, the tribes are offered the opportunity to present a challenger to the throne who T'Challa must defeat in combat in order to be king. If he fails, his challenger becomes King. All the tribes pass on the opportunity' except for the Jabari. A fight ensues between M'Baku, head of the Jabari tribe, and T'Challa, but our hero wins and spares M'Baku's life.  After smashing up a London museum, international criminal Ulysses Klaue - the arms dealer who sold Ultron the vibranium in Age of Ultron - and Erik Stevens have their hands on a Vibranium artefact. It doesn't take long for Okoye to hear about this, so T'Challa, Nakia, and Okoye make their way to a casino in South Korea to intercept the Vibranium and catch Klaue. Unexpectedly, the organisation buying the Vibranium is none other than the CIA, represented by Everett K. Ross (who we met in Civil War) and - as would be expected - things quickly go south and a car chase ensues, but thankfully T'Challa catches Klaue in the end. He doesn't have the upper hand for long, though, as during Klaue's interrogation the South African is rescued by Erik. While T'Challa is fighting him he notices a Vibranium ring hung around Erik's neck, which looks a lot like his own royal ring' Oh, and Ross catches a bullet in the spine after jumping in front of bullet aimed at Nakia. Don't fret, though: he's sped to Wakanda, where he's healed in Shuri's lab. 
As Ross recuperates, T'Challa confronts Zuri about Erik's ring and finds out that T'Chaka killed his own brother to save Zuri's life, and that the pair left N'Jobu's son Erik behind to maintain the lie that he disappeared. Erik knew of his Wakandan heritage and grew up to join Black Ops and become a professional killer nicknamed Killmonger. T'Challa is pretty upset about his cousin's fate. Meanwhile, Killmonger murders Klaue and presents his body to the Wakandan council to gain an audience with the tribal elders. He reveals his lineage and challenges T'Challa to ritual combat for the Wakandan throne. During the brawl Killmonger kills Zuri and chucks T'Challa over the waterfall, ingesting the heart-shaped herb to claim the mantle of Black Panther. Deciding he's going to be the last Black Panther, Killmonger orders the rest of the heart-shaped herbs to be set on fire, but Nakia manages to sneak one out and escapes with Ramonda, Shuri, and Ross. Killmonger commands his Wakandan forces to send Vibranium weapons to their spies around the world and plans to rule it using the advanced technology.  Nakia and co. flee to the Jabari tribe in the mountains (Okoye remains in Wakanda, citing her loyalty to the throne - no matter who sits upon it) and present M'Baku with the heart-shaped herb, pleading with him to become the next Black Panther and seize the throne from Killmonger. M'Baku hesitates' then leads the four refugees to a near-death T'Challa who remains comatose in the mountain ice. Ramonda feeds him the heart-shaped herb, and T'Challa is brought back to life. T'Challa and his four allies return to Wakanda after failing to convince M'Baku to join the fight against Killmonger. The imposter King immediately orders his armies to attack T'Challa and his forces are split. Realising T'Challa is alive, Okoye turns on Killmonger and her royal guard attack his forces, as does Shuri and Nakia. While in Shuri's lab Ross remotely pilots a jet and shoots down the carriers taking Vibranium weapons to America before they leave Wakanda. Just when it looks like T'Challa's side is losing, the Jabari turn up and save the day (M'Baku is a gem). Speaking of the Kings of Wakanda - both of them - Killmonger and T'Challa fight in the Vibranium mines, with T'Challa emerging victorious. Huzzah: Nakia finally agrees to marry T'Challa and become queen of Wakanda, and at the same time T'Challa decides to reveal Wakanda's technological prowess to the world and share their knowledge and Vibranium. Social outreach centres in America are opened up headed by Shuri. A post-credits scene reveals that Bucky has been recuperating from his brainwashing in Wakanda' but he isn't fixed. Yet. Bucky's brainwashing is being fixed in Wakanda
Wakanda is opening up aid centres in America
The world now knows Wakanda is an advanced nation and it's sharing its technologies
No more heart-shaped herbs are left, so T'Challa is the last Black Panther
Shuri is a technological goddess and will give Tony Stark a run for his money. Before the Universe Began, six singularities existed: Space, Mind, Reality, Power, Time, Soul
Dark Elves arose from the darkness before traveling to the Nine Realms to rule over them all from Svartalfheim, the Dark World.
After the Universe Began: Cosmic Entities Death, Entropy, Infinity, and Eternity created the Infinity Stones from these singularities.
Elders of the Universe: The Collector and the Grandmaster come into being.
Several Million Years Ago: Ego the Living Planet comes into being as a Celestial, a member of a powerful, primordial race.
Thousands of Years Ago: Asgardian, Kree, and Human civilizations emerge.
Kree experiments on Earth give rise to Inhumans whose genetic abilities are triggered by Terrigen Mist, causing Terrigenesis.
Agamotto founds the Masters of the Mystic Arts and constructs three sanctuaries on Earth. 
Convergence, or the alignment of the Nine Realms of Yggdrasil, occurs. This happens once every 5,000 years.
First Battle of Svartalfheim: Malekith leads the Dark Elves in an attempt to destroy the Nine Realms using the Aether. The Asgardian army, led by Odin's father Bor, defeat Malekith and secure the Aether, hiding it away.
Some time later, Odin and his firstborn Hela, acting as his executioner, wage war across the Nine Realms, conquering them all. When Hela's ambition grows too great, their forces battle against each other and many Valkyries are killed in the combat. Odin, victorious, seals Hela away in a prison and banishers her memory from history. Battle of T'nsberg: Jotunheim's Frost Giants invade T'sberg, Norway in an attempt to conquer Midgard, a.k.a. Earth.
Battle of Jotunheim: Odin leads the Asgardian army against the Frost Giants to defend Midgard. Odin also discovers an abandoned Jotunheim infant, adopting him, and raising him alongside his own son Thor with the given name, Loki.
Odin negotiates a truce with the Frost Giant king, Lufey. Centuries' Before the Current Time: In the opening scene of Black Panther, the story of a Vibranium meteorite crashing into Africa 'centuries ago' is retold. This sparked war among the five regional tribes, eventually leading to the emergence of the powerful Black Panther, a leader who gained powers through consuming the Heart-Shaped Herb, united the tribes, established the nation of Wakanda, and continued the mythology of the Panther Gods.
The Jabari Tribe remains isolated from Wakanda by their own choosing, watching from their mountain stronghold while the Wakandans develop incredible technology by using Vibranium.
Wakanda also chooses to remain isolated, appearing to the world as a Third World nation of sheep and goat-herders. 
Kree and Nova Empires fight a war that lasts thousands of years. 
A defector from Asgard's Berserker Army flees to Earth and breaks his strength-enhancing weapon'the Berserker Staff'into three pieces which he hides across Europe.
 The Ancient One is born. Odin hides the Tesseract in T'nsberg, Norway. 
Lorelei enslaves hundreds of men across the Nine Realms by enthralling them before being defeated by Sif and being imprisoned in Asgard's dungeons. 
Members of HYDRA meet to determine who among them will pass through the Kree Monolith. 
Ulysses Klaue's great-grandfather is killed by Wakanda's Black Panther.
 Captain America, Peggy Carter, and S.H.I.E.L.D. The Council of Nine orchestrates the assassination of President McKinley. 
The Council's headquarters The Arena Club is founded. World War I begins. James Buchanan 'Bucky' Barnes is born. Howard Stark is born. Joseph Rogers dies while fighting in the war with the 107th as a consequence of a mustard gas attack. He received a posthumous Purple Heart. Steve Rogers is born. World War I ends.
  Margaret 'Peggy' Carter is born. Council member Thomas Gloucester orchestrates the Wall Street Crash. 
 Dr. Abraham Erskine begins experimentation on a Super Soldier Serum. Steve Rogers meets Bucky Barnes in New York City. 
Johann Schmidt begins searching for the Tesseract. Sarah Rogers dies of tuberculosis. Dottie Underwood and other Soviet girls train to become master assassins in the Red Room program. World War II begins. Howard Star founds Stark Industries. 
Peggy Carter calls off her wedding and enlists in the British counter-intelligence and security agency, MI5.
Peggy Carter becomes an advisor to American agency Strategic Scientific Reserve. Johann Schmidt injects himself with the Super Soldier Serum, transforming him into the Red Skull.
Bucky Barnes and Steve Rogers enlist while visiting New York City's U.S. Recruiting and Induction Center, but Steve is designated 4F and rejected. He tries four more times in four different cities but meets the same fate each time.
Led by Dr. Erskine along with Howard Stark, Peggy Carter, and Colonel Chester Phillips, the Strategic Scientific Reserve's Project Rebirth chamber is completed and ready to transform volunteers into super-soldiers. Red Skull discovers and secures the Tesseract.
HYDRA General Warner Reinhardt's team, tasked with discovering more artifacts related to the Tesseract, find the corpse of a blue-skinned extraterrestrial, a Kree soldier they dub G.H. 
Steve Rogers is recruited by Dr. Erskine for Project Rebirth.
Steve Rogers is successfully transformed through the use of the super-soldier serum. However, Dr. Erskine is assassinated by HYDRA operative, Heinz Kruger.
Steve Rogers refuses to be kept in a lab as a research specimen and goes on a USO tour instead as Captain America.
Captain America leads an assault on a HYDRA facility in Austria to liberate Dum Dum Dugan, Gabe Jones, Jim Morita, James Montgomery Falsworth, Jacques Dernier, Bucky, and the rest of the 107th, some of whom will form the Howling Commandos.
Howard Stark's research of HYDRA's mysterious power source leads him down the path to developing a New Element. Tony Stark later completes this research to improve upon his arc reactor. General John McGinnis' soldiers raid Howard Starks lab and steal his research along with Midnight Oil, a combat drug originally designed to keep its users awake and alert, but which had the side effect of causing the user to go mad. 
The Howling Commandos capture Arnim Zola but Bucky Barnes falls from the HYDRA train in the process and is presumed dead.
Werner Reinhardt discovers the 'Obelisk', a Kree Diviner used to contain Terrigen Crystals which would release Terrigen Mist upon exposure. 
Captain America and the Howling Commandos defeat Red Skull, who uses the Tesseract and subsequently vanishes, never to be seen again' Captain America crashes the HYDRA plane Valkyrie off the coast of Greenland and is presumed dead.
Red Skull, after disappearing from his contact with the Tesseract in 1945, is transported to the distant realm of Vormir in order to take on the mantle of the Stonekeeper and escort those who seek the Soul Stone, eventually including Thanos himself.
Reinhardt tests the Obelisk on an unwilling Chinese woman named Jiaying. She survived the experiment but was locked up in a cage while Reinhardt moved his base of operations upon hearing of Red Skull's presumed death.
Soldiers encounter a mysterious phenomenon known as Zero Matter or the Darkforce while on the battlefields of Europe.
Reinhardt is interrogated by Peggy Carter and sentenced to life imprisonment, despite him attempting to share information on the Obelisk and Kree. World War II ends. 
Howard Stark is tried by the United States Congress to determine whether or not he's a traitor when some of his inventions show up for sale on the black market. Stark flees the country, believing he will be convicted, and tasks his butler Edwin Jarvis with assisting Peggy Carter on her mission. He becomes the SSR's most-wanted target.
Soviet scientist Anton Vanko tells Carter and Jarvis that Roxxon is the only company with the means of weaponizing Stark's dangerous chemical compound, Nitramene. The Roxxon Refinery explodes that same night. 
The Cold War begins.
 Peggy Carter arrives in Los Angeles where an exonerated Howard Stark has opened up a new estate and started a motion picture company.
  An unidentified Iron Fist is caught on mission by the Chinese Government while defending a secret passage into K'un-Lun from soldiers who had become lost in the jungle. Howard Stark and Peggy Carter plan to form S.H.I.E.L.D., which they launch in January of 1949. 
Zola, now recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D., begins to rebuild HYDRA from within the agency. He and former HYDRA agents track down Bucky Barnes, who had survived his fall and was in the custody of Soviet authorities. Bucky's memory is wiped and modified, as is his body; he'd lost an arm but was outfitted with a metal prosthetic. HYDRA kept Bucky cryogenically frozen, thawed out only when needed as the elite assassin, Winter Soldier.
 Nick Fury is born. Peggy Carter is interviewed about her experiences with Captain America during World War II. The year-long Stark Exposition kicks off. Yondu Udonta is sold into Kree slavery as an infant. The Winter Soldier conducts an operation, as documented by the KGB. Meredith Quill is born. 
Vietnam War begins, orchestrated by HYDRA. Midtown School of Science and Technology is founded. (Peter Parker will later attend.) ' Cuban Missile Crisis, manipulated by HYDRA. 
 Anton Vanko defects to the U.S. to develop Arc Reactor technology with Howard Stark as part of The Unity Project. The assassination of President John F. Kennedy is orchestrated by HYDRA and carried out by the Winter Soldier. Stark World Exposition held alongside the World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, New York City. Phil Coulson is born. Trevor Slattery performs his first theatrical role as Boatswain #1 in William Shakespeare's 'The Tempest. 
 Anton Vanko is accused of espionage, deported as a spy, and exiled to Siberia for 20 years. Howard Stark assumes full credit for the Arc Reactor technology. Obadiah Stane convinces Stark to once again focus his efforts on weapons technology. Anton Vanko's son Ivan is born. James Rupert Rhodes is born. Bruce Banner is born. Tony Stark is born. Clinton 'Clint' Barton is born. Arnim Zola dies of a terminal illness, but his consciousness is uploaded into a computer system in a S.H.I.E.L.D. bunker in Camp Lehigh, New Jersey. A young Wilson Fisk kills his father with a hammer to stop him from beating Wilson's mother, Marlene. Wilson and his mother cut up the body and dump it into the river over a few days. Marlene soon sends Wilson to live on a farm with his relatives. The last Stark World Exposition until 2011. Howard Stark's video advertising the expo cleverly disguises a clue to perfecting the Arc Reactor technology, one which only his son Tony Stark will recognize. Yondu Udonta is freed from Kree slavery by Stakar Ogord and becomes a Ravager. Yondu goes against the code by working for Ego and delivering children gathered from across the universe to Ego's planet. Vietname War ends. Misty Knight is born. Sam Wilson is born. Howard Stark unveils his Arc Reactor technology but does not explore the tech's profitability.
 Ego comes to Earth to plant a seedling and falls in love with Meredith Quill. He leaves on December, but returns multiple times over the months ahead. Hope Van Dyne is born. Peter Quill is born. Hank Pym uses his Ant-Man suit to test his EMP communication device by shrinking down to the size of Bullet Ants. Natasha Romanoff is born.
 
 Matt Murdock is born. Anton Vanko returns from Siberian exile. Thanos kills Gamora and Nebula's families, and then adopts them as his daughters. They become skilled assassins and fighters under Ronan the Accuser. During a training scenario, Gamora tosses Nebula over a cliff, injuring her to the point that she requires cybernetic augmentations which disappoint her adopted father. Hank Pym and Janet Van Dyne try to disarm a Soviet ICBM as Ant-Man and the Wasp. Janet presumably dies after turning off her suit's regulator in order to shrink down small enough to enter the missile and disable it, though she may be lost in the quantum realm. Leo Fitz is born. Jemma Simmons is born.
 
 Daisy Johnson is born. Meredith Quill dies and Peter is abducted by Yondu's Ravagers under orders from Ego. Reinhardt is set free by Alexander Pierce and returns to Austria to resume experimentation on Jiaying, using his discoveries to restore his own youth. Hank Pym resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D. upon discovering that the organization attempted to replicate his size-changing technology.
 
 John Garrett becomes the first test subject for HYDRA's Project Deathlok after becoming mortally wounded by an IED in Sarajevo. Danny Rand is born. Howard and Maria Stark assassinated by the Winter Soldier. Obadiah Stane assumes interim CEO duties of Stark Industries. Soviet Union dissolved and the Cold War ends. (Spoilers ahead for Black Panther.) During the Los Angeles Riots, two men in Oakland, California plot to use their cache of weapons to start a race war. They're interrupted by two 'Grace Jones-lookin' chicks with spears', members of the Dora Milaje who herald the arrival of the current Black Panther, T'Chaka. 
It turns out that one of the men is actually Prince N'Jobu (Sterling K. Brown), T'Chaka's brother, a Wakandan royal, and member of the Golden Tribe who possesses one of their father's royal rings. 
While on assignment, N'Jobu met an American woman; they had a son named Erik. At some point, N'Jobu gifted his son with a Vibranium inner-lip tattoo that acted as a mark of a true Wakandan. 
N'Jobu, a War Dog tasked with reporting back to Wakanda on the events transpiring in California at this time, became entangled in the racial tensions, opting to help the mercenary Ulysses Klaue to steal Vibranium from Wakanda in order to start a race war and give his people the upper hand. 
However, it was revealed that N'Jobu's right-hand man James was actually Zuri, a Wakandan confidant who had earned N'Jobu's trust while also reporting back to T'Chaka.
Learning of the deception, being caught in the act of aiding Klaue in smuggling Vibranium from Wakanda, and facing trial in Wakanda for the resulting deaths of his people (including W'Kabi's parents), N'Jobu attempts to shoot Zuri, but T'Chaka interferes, killing his own brother. 
Young Erik, having witnessed the arrival and departure of T'Chaka's ship, returns home to find his father murdered. He also finds N'Jobu's journals, including a decryption key for the Wakandan language, and begins his journey of vengeance.
Over the years, Erik Stevens, a.k.a. N'Jadaka, a.k.a. Erik Killmonger, would graduate from MIT, become a Navy SEAL, be recruited into the CIA Ghost unit as a Black Ops mercenary, and rack up dozens of kills, which he marked on his body using scarification. 
 
 Ivan Vanko receives 15-year prison sentence for selling Soviet-era weapons grade plutonium to Pakistan.
 While attempting to save a bystander from being hit by a truck, Matt Murdock is doused in hazardous chemicals. He loses his sight, but his other senses become enhanced. Jack Murdock is assassinated for failing to throw a boxing match. Stick introduces himself to Matt Murdock at the St. Agnes Orphanage, offering to train him.
 
 Bruce Banner and Betty Ross begin dating as undergraduate students at Harvard. Natasha Romanoff joins Russia's covert espionage program, emerging three years later as the Black Widow.
 
 Stick was also training another pupil, Elektra. Rather than following orders to kill her once it became clear that she was the latest incarnation of the Black Sky, Stick placed her with a wealthy adoptive family in Greece for her own safety. 
 In attempting to reconcile the death of his wife Adria, Kaecillius is brought to Kamar-Taj by Karl Mordo and meets with The Ancient One, joining the Masters of the Mystic Arts.
 
 Nick Fury sends Clint Barton to eliminate Natasha Romanoff in Russia, seeing her as a threat to global security. Instead, she's given a chance to join S.H.I.E.L.D., which she takes.
 
 Jessica Jones is the sole survivor of a car crash during a family road trip. Chemicals spilled during the crash grant Jessica Jones her abilities. Tony Stark travels to Bern, Switzerland for a New Year's Eve party where he meets Maya Hansen and Ho Yinsen. Disabled scientist Aldrich Killian requests funding from Stark for his think tank Advanced Idea Mechanics (A.I.M.), but is rudely rebuffed. Hansen later reveals her work on the Extremis virus to Stark.

 A rejected Killian accepts a jilted Hansen into A.I.M. where they work on Extremis together. Under HYDRA's influence, NASA sends astronauts through the Monolith to survey the planet on the other side. Frank Castle enlists in the Marine Corps following the September attacks. General Thaddeus Ross starts the Bio-Tech Force Enhancement Project through the U.S. Armed Forces in order to replicate Project Rebirth.
  Iraq War begins, orchestrated by HYDRA. Matt Murdock meets his college roommate, Foggy Nelson.
 
 Bruce Banner joins the Bio-Tech Force Enhancement Project under false pretenses of Thaddeus Ross and earnest convictions of Betty Ross.
 Testing his experiment on himself, Bruce Banner is exposed to a combination of Gamma radiation and Betty's formula derived from Dr. Erskine's super-soldier serum, accidentally becoming the Hulk. Learning that the Army wants to use him as a weapon, Banner runs, starting a six-year chase across the globe. Microsoft releases the Zune 30. Peter Quill later obtains one. S.H.I.E.L.D. assists Thaddeus Ross in the quest to bring down the Hulk until 2011. Stark also provides Humvee-mounted sonic cannons. Aldrich Killian injects himself with the Extremis virus, healing his disabilities and allowing him to walk without a cane.
 
 Killian exposes willing subjects, mostly seriously injured military veterans, to Extremis. Those who survive heal and regrow lost limbs. S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Melinda May earns her nickname 'The Cavalry' during the Rescue in Bahrain. 
 Nick Fury places Phil Coulson in charge of Project T.A.H.I.T.I. with the aim of using the Kree corpse to potentially revive a fallen Avenger. 
Tony Stark demonstrates his Accelerated Wave Explosion (A.W.E.) weaponry to the U.S. Armed Forces.
Christine Everhart is kicked out of the Stark Mansion by Pepper Potts after a one-night stand; she later becomes an anchor for WHIH World News. Later, during a weapons demonstration in Afghanistan, Tony Stark is kidnapped by the Ten Rings, who are working for Obadiah Stane.
Under Fury's orders, Phil Coulson questions Obadiah Stane as to whether or not Stark could have sold weapons to terrorists. Fury refuses Coulson's request to go search for Stark himself.
Project T.A.H.I.T.I. test subjects go insane and are given new memories to cope with the effects of the trauma.
Stark and fellow captive Ho Yinsen, who saves Stark's life multiple times, construct Tony's Mark I suit of armor, allowing him to escape; Yinsen does not survive. Stark's first flight as Iron Man is picked up by S.H.I.E.L.D.'s radar and Nick Fury contacts the U.S. Department of Defense with the intel. 
Having returned to the U.S., after pulling out of the weapons business and cancelling all military contracts, Stark turns his attention to his Arc Reactor and Iron Man tech.
Pepper Potts and Phil Coulson discover the Iron Monger Armor and Stark uses his Mark III armor to battle the power-hungry Stane, who dies in an explosion of the industrial Arc Reactor.
Stark publicly claims his new nickname as Iron Man, rejecting S.H.I.E.L.D.'s cover story; he's later approached by Nick Fury to join the 'Avengers Initiative.' That same day, Anton Ivanko dies and his son Ivan vows to take revenge on Stark by developing his own powered-armor tech.
Emil Blonsky and his team track Bruce Banner to South America 
Tony Stark appears before the Senate Armed Services Committee's Weaponized Suit Defense Program Hearings.
Natalia Rushman, a.k.a. Natasha Romanoff, joins Stark Industries as Tony's new personal assistant, on Fury's orders.
Ivan Vanko crashes the Circuit de Monaco, battling Tony Stark, who equips his lightweight Mark V armor and defeats Vanko's Whiplash tech. 
While Fury confines Tony Stark to house arrest after helping to slow his palladium poisoning, Rhodes delivers the stolen Mark II armor to the military, where it's upgraded by Justin Hammer.
At the same time, Jane Foster and Erik Selvig monitor strange atmospheric disturbances in New Mexico, landing them on S.H.I.E.L.D.'s radar.
Meanwhile, Thor's coronation is interrupted by the Frost Giants breaking into Odin's treasure room; the Asgardian quickly brings the battle to Jotunheim before Odin puts a stop to it.
Iron Man, War Machine, Black Widow, and Happy Hogan defeat the Hammer Drones when Vanko hacks them to attack the Stark Expo. During this battle, a young boy (now confirmed to be Peter Parker) stands up to a Hammer Drone, assisted by Iron Man himself.
Coulson arrives in New Mexico and Thor crashes to Earth while Bruce Banner arrives at Culver University.
Odin enters Odinsleep and Loki begins to move against his brother when his true parentage is revealed.
Romanoff begins spying on Banner while Blonsky receives an unauthorized dose of enhancement serum.
Sif and the Warriors Three arrive on Earth with the Destroyer following them on Loki's orders. It attacks S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and citizens at Puente Antiguo, but Thor proves himself worthy and, with his powers restored, defeats it. Later that day, Thor and Loki duel at the Rainbow Bridge. Thor destroys the Bifrost Bridge to prevent Loki from destroying Jotunheim, but that restricts Thor to Asgard and sends Loki into space. After a time, he arrived at the asteroid-strewn area known as Sanctuary, presided over by Thanos. An enhanced Blonsky battles the Hulk on Culver University's campus while Romanoff reports her findings to Fury.
Stark accepts an advisory role with S.H.I.E.L.D. and the Avengers Initiative.
Blonsky mutates into Abomination when injected with products derived from Banner's blood. Hulk defeats the Abomination after a destructive battle in Harlem.
Samuel Sterns, who attempted to cure Banner, ends up mutating due to exposure to Banner's blood. Romanoff finds him and takes him into custody.
Fury receives the necessary funds to study the Tesseract and launch the Avengers Initiative.
Fury approaches Selvig with an offer to join S.H.I.E.L.D. in an advisory role, while the first 'Mandarin bombing' occurs.
Tony Stark approaches Ross with a plan to put a team together, inquiring about Blonsky. His attitude rubs Ross the wrong way and the General refuses to release the Abomination, thus fulfilling Coulson and Agent Sitwell's plan to keep Blonsky imprisoned.
The second 'Mandarin bombing' occurs.  
Aldrich Killian hires Trevor Slattery to pose as the terrorist known as the Mandarin in order to provide a cover for his explosive Extremis side effects which continue to make the news as 'suicide bombings. S.H.I.E.L.D. continues research on Vanko's 'Whiplash' technology, the Tesseract, Samuel Sterns' mutation, Jane Foster's Nine Realms theory, and manage to thaw out a recently recovered Steve Rogers. The Darkhold also comes to their attention.
The Fifth Street Locos shoot up Eli Morrow's car, which Robbie and Gabe Reyes had recently stolen. The car flips and Robbie is killed while Gabe is paralyzed. The Ghost Rider appears and saves Gabe's life as well as Robbie's, though the later is transformed into the new Ghost Rider.
Loki, aided by Thanos and The Other, uses the Tesseract energy to teleport him to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Joint Dark Energy Mission Facility where he steals the Tesseract and controls the minds of Selvig and Hawkeye. Heimdall alerts Thor and Odin of Loki's arrival on Earth.
Meanwhile, Romanoff is undercover and interrogating weapons-dealer Georgi Luchkov; her mission is cut short by a call from Coulson, telling her Hawkeye's been compromised.
Thor arrives back on Earth thanks to Odin's use of dark energy to transport him. He has a brief skirmish with Iron Man and Captain America that ends with the agreement to take Loki into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody. Loki manages to escape captivity aboard a S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier when his mind-controlled agents take it over and the Hulk goes on a rampage. Phil Coulson is killed in the process. The Battle proceeds to New York where Loki opens a wormhole to allow the invading Chitauri army to swarm into the city. The Avengers unite, defeat Loki, and manage to prevent a missile from wiping out New York City. The invasion is ended and the Tesseract is reclaimed; Thor takes it to Asgard for safe keeping.
Many media outlets and private citizens record video of the invasion that show off both the heroic and destructive effects of the battle, in which the mother of Audrey Eastman and the mother of Ellen Nadeer and Vijay Nadeer died.
The cleanup from the Battle of New York begins. Citizens begin to gather bits and pieces of the alien tech, taking it either as trophies or for other purposes. To prevent this, Tony Stark and the federal government reformed the U.S. Department of Damage Control, which puts private salvage contractors like Adrian Toomes out of business. Toomes, however, takes this opportunity to pilfer more alien technology and put it to criminal purposes.
Phil Coulson is resurrected at the Guest House, though the painful process has the agent begging the surgeons to let him die and necessitating the implantation of false memories, like Tahiti.
Scott Lang is fired from Vistacorp for fixing what he believed was a code error that was illegally overcharging customers.
Lang then breaks into Vistacorp Headquarters to return $4 million of the ill-gotten money to customers. He also breaks into his former boss' mansion to steal his possessions and drive his car into the pool. 
Lang is arrested and sentenced to five years in San Quentin.
A fourth 'Mandarin bombing' occurs.
The fifth 'Mandarin bombing' occurs. Tony Stark tests his Mark XLII armor as his Iron Legion project causes friction between him and Pepper.
The Mandarin bombs both Ali Al Salem Air Base and the TCL Chinese Theater, which explodes when Jack Taggert succumbs to Extremis' effects. Happy Hogan is caught in the blast but survives.
Stark's mansion is destroyed by the Mandarin.
After discovering Killian's plan, Stark and his Iron Legion save an Extremis-infected Pepper Potts (who didn't need much saving after all) while Rhodes rescues the kidnapped President.
Pepper's Extremis effects are neutralized while Stark has the last of the shrapnel near his heart surgically removed, throwing the old, obsolete Arc Reactor into the sea. Stark has the Iron Legion destroyed.
21st Century: Carl Lucas is set up by Willis Stryker and sentenced to Seagate Prison for a crime he didn't commit.
Carl Lucas meets his therapist, Reva Connors.
Matt Murdock turns down permanent positions at law firm Landman and Zack, but also commits his first act of vigilantism by beating up his child-abusing neighbor.
Carl Lucas undergoes an experiment at Seagate Prison that grants him super-strength and impenetrable skin, allowing him to break out of prison that same night. Reva meets him at a motel and they continue their relationship, though he now goes by Luke Cage.
Nick Fury gives Coulson command of the Bus.
Centipede Project test subject Michael Peterson saves a woman from an exploded building, earning the moniker 'Hooded Hero.' A day later, he's apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who hope to stabilize his Extremis virus that comprised the Centipede serum.
Agent Grant Ward begins training Skye to be a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. 
Jessica Jones is forced to wear a sandwich costume for her job at a bad sandwich shop and manages to save a kid from being hit by a car.
Carl Lucas marries Reva Connors
Kilgrave places Jessica Jones under his mind control, a kidnapping that lasts for months.
Frank Castle receives his medal of honor for his service as a marine in Afghanistan.
The Convergence begins. Thor leads the Asgardians in the Battle of Vanaheim and defeats the Marauders. Thor then heads to Earth to locate Jane Foster who has become infected with the power of the Aether. Thor brings Jane to Asgard for treatment, against his father's wishes, but the reappearance of the Aether itself awakens Malekith and his army from a 5,000 year slumber.
Malekith and Algrim kill Thor's mother, Frigga. Against his father's wishes yet again, Thor plots to free Loki in order to find a way to defeat the Dark Elves and take his revenge.
While Loki uses his magic to trick Odin into claiming the throne, Thor and his human allies defeat Malekith and the Dark Elves at the Battle of Greenwich. Thor refuses the throne of Asgard from Odin (who's actually Loki in disguise) and chooses to remain on Earth, while Sif and Volstagg meet the Collector to deliver the Aether to him for safe keeping. Unbeknownst to them, he then tasks Gamora with finding the Orb in order to collect more Infinity Stones. Michael Peterson awakes after suffering horrific injuries to find himself missing a leg, but now sporting a Backscatter X-Ray Eye implant, and under the employ of the Clairvoyant.
Ten Rings agent Jackson Norris infiltrates Seagate Prison and kidnaps Trevor Slattery to deliver him to the real Mandarin. 
Under Kilgrave's control, Jessica Jones kills Reva Connors.
Jessica Jones escapes Kilgrave's control following a car accident, presuming him dead. Kilgrave survives, however, and forces Jack Denton to donate his kidneys which Dr. David Kurata transplants into Kilgrave without anesthesia.
Coulson discovers the Kree body in the Guest House, which is destroyed after Skye is healed of her gunshot wounds.
Lorelei arrives on Earth and is followed by Sif, on Odin/Loki's orders, who attempts to apprehend her.
Sif and the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. defeat Lorelei and Sif returns to Asgard. 
Phil Coulson and other agents discuss possible identities of the entity known as the Clairvoyant.
Steve Rogers meets Sam Wilson during a morning run in Washington, D.C. (On your left.)
Captain America and Black Widow lead S.H.I.E.L.D.'s STRIKE team in retaking the Lemurian Star and rescuing hostages; Captain America fights and defeats Batroc the Leaper while Black Widow downloads information from the ship's computers.
Steve Rogers confronts Nick Fury about the espionage and learns of Project Insight. He later visits an ailing Peggy Carter and attends Sam Wilson's counseling session.
Nick Fury is attacked by the Winter Soldier. Captain America pursues the assassin while Agent 13 / Sharon Carter gets Fury to a hospital, where he appears to die while undergoing surgery.
Captain America is attacked by members of STRIKE and goes on the run with Black Widow. Together they learn the truth of the Winter Soldier's history and of HYDRA's existence within S.H.I.E.L.D. before the Camp Lehigh bunker is destroyed. Captain America, Black Widow, and the Falcon take on the members of HYDRA who have infiltrated S.H.I.E.L.D., including the high-ranking Alexander Pierce. Along with the not-actually-dead Nick Fury and Maria Hill, they take out the three helicarriers HYDRA had planned to use to neutralize over 715,000 potential threats to their organization. After a brutal fight that damages the Triskelion, the Winter Soldier begins to remember his past as Bucky Barnes and pulls an unconscious Captain America from the Potomac River.
With HYDRA's infiltration exposed to the public, a series of battles take place between the double agents and the S.H.I.E.L.D. faithful before the agency itself is labeled a terrorist organization by the federal government.
Coulson and his agents defeat John Garrett.
Fury appoints Coulson as director of S.H.I.E.L.D. and grants him the Toolbox which points him to their new facility, the Playground. Wolfgang von Strucker assures his HYDRA personnel that their work will continue despite recent events. He observes Pietro and Wanda Maximoff practicing their 'miraculous' abilities.
The Kree and Nova Empires sign a peace treaty, ending the long war between them. Ronan the Accuser refuses to submit to the terms and is labeled a terrorist. 
Star-Lord travels solo to Morag to take possession of the Orb, but is attacked by Korath the Pursuer and Sakaaran mercenaries.
Quill flees and informs Yondu that he's breaking off from the ravagers, which results in a bounty placed on Quill's head.
Ronan sends Gamora after Quill and the Orb.
After Gamora attacks Quill and steals the orb, and once Rocket Raccoon and Groot attempt to capture Quill in order to claim the bounty, they're all apprehended by Nova Corps and imprisoned at the Kyln.
In the prison, they meet Drax the Destroyer who attempts to kill Gamora as vengeance for the death of his wife and daughter at Ronan's hands. They work together to escape the Kyln the following day, but are now pursued by Ronan and Nebula.
At Knowhere, the group learns of the Orb's power from the Collector, but the Infinity Stone it contains soon falls into Ronan's hands. Ronan betrays Thanos, with Nebula at his side, and uses the stone for himself.
The Ravagers, the Guardians of the Galaxy, and the Nova Corps worth together to defeat Ronan.
The Infinity Stone is given to Nova Corps for protection.
Nebula is apprehended by the Sovereign while attempting to steal Anulax Batteries.
Brock Rumlow awakens from his coma, attacks his nurse, and escapes the hospital. 
The Guardians of the Galaxy are hired by Ayesha of the Sovereign to defeat the battery-eating Abilisk. Their reward for doing so is the release of Nebula.
Rocket Raccoon steals some of the Anulax Batteries, leading to a skirmish with the Sovereign fleet.
Ego saves them from destruction and introduces himself to them when they crash-land on the planet Berhert.
On Contraxia, Yondu's expulsion from the Ravagers for child trafficking is publicly restated by Stakar Ogord. Ayesha arrives and hires Yondu to capture the Guardians.
Yondu, Rocket Raccoon, Groot, and Kraglin kill the mutineers and escape the Eclector.
Gamora, Drax and Nebula learn of Ego's plan from Mantis, just as Peter Quill hears it from Ego himself. Quill uses his access to Celestial power to battle his father while the other Guardians manage to destroy the heart of Ego's power.
Yondu sacrifices himself in order to save Quill. He receives a traditional Ravagers funeral, restoring honor to his memory. Stakar reunites with his former teammates Charlie-27, Aleta Ogord, Mainframe, and Krugarr.
Adam Warlock is created by Ayesha as the perfect weapon to take down the Guardians. 
Bobbi Morse rescues an undercover Jemma Simmons from the HYDRA Laboratories.
Matt Murdock, having recently confessed his sins and begged pardon for his future activities, decides to become a force for good in Hell's Kitchen, becoming the vigilante, Daredevil. He saves three women from being kidnapped by Turk Barrett and his men.
Karen Page is accused of killing Daniel Fisher. Murdock and Nelson are hired to defend her.
Badly injured, Daredevil is tended to by Claire Temple for the first time. He later survives a brutal battle in order to rescue a kidnapped boy.
Daredevil and Stick attack Nobu Yoshioka's men while they are receiving delivery of the Black Sky, a young boy. Daredevil prevents Stick from killing the boy, but only temporarily.
Wilson Fisk publicly announces his intention to rid Hell's Kitchen of the criminal element, sabotaging Murdock and Ben Urich's plans to expose the mobster. 
After barely surviving a duel against Yoshioka, daredevil narrowly escapes death at the hands of Wilson Fisk.
Foggy Nelson learns of Daredevil's identity while Claire Temple patches him up, once again.
Daredevil encounters Madame Gao while infiltrating the Steel Serpent drug manufacturing and distribution warehouse.
Ben Urich is assassinated by Fisk.
After being arrested by the FBI, Wilson Fisk's men free him, but Daredevil (in his new suit from Melvin Potter) duels Fisk in Hell's Kitchen, and defeats him. Fisk is apprehended by the NYPD.
An attack on the United Nations Headquarters is carried out by HYDRA operatives claiming to be operating under the orders of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Jessica Jones takes a case tracking down the missing Hope Shlottman.
Jones meets local bar owner Luke Cage and the two have a one-night stand, but Jones quickly leaves when she sees Reva Connors' picture in his apartment.  Jones finds Hope and rescues her, but since Hope was under the influence of Kilgrave, she shoots her own parents.
Jones starts to investigate Kilgrave's activity once again, inspired by the radio show of her adopted sister, Trish Walker.
A brawl at Luke's bar reveals to Luke Cage and Jessica Jones that each other have powers.
Jessica Jones, Trish Walker, and Will Simpsons successfully subdue Kilgrave, but he's freed by his bodyguards.
The Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. battle HYDRA agents in Kree City, where Skye and Raina's Inhuman abilities are revealed by Terrigen Mist. Antoine Triplett dies in the process.
Frank Castle finishes his last tour of duty and heads home to New York City.
Castle and his family are caught in a mob firefight in Central Park. He survives with only a gunshot to his hand, but his wife and daughter are killed.
Kilgrave attempts to win Jessica Jones' affections by purchasing her childhood home and showing her tapes of his own childhood in which his unethical parents experimented on him.
Jones manages to drug Kilgrave and escape both his bodyguards and those who want to kill him. 
Under Kilgrave's thrall, Luke Cage destroys his own bar. Jessica Jones comes to his rescue, but the two soon fight since Luke is still under Kilgrave's influence.
Now resistant to Kilgrave's powers, Jessica Jones tricks the mind-controlling villain into letting his guard down. She snaps his neck, killing him. Jones is then taken to prison but is soon freed by Jeri Hogarth.
The Avengers assemble to raid HYDRA's main research base in Sokovia. They interact with the twins Pietro and Wanda Maximoff but manage to succeed in their mission to liberate the Scepter and take Wolfgang von Strucker into custody, ending the War on HYDRA.
They return to Avengers Tower where Tony Stark and Bruce Banner discover an artificial intelligence hidden within the Scepter, which they opt to use for Stark's peacekeeping Ultron Program.
During a celebratory party at Avengers Tower, Ultron becomes sentient, determines that the human race is volatile and self-destructive, and attempts to destroy J.A.R.V.I.S. before forming a body for itself out of parts of Stark's new Iron Legion suits.
Ultron introduces himself to the Avengers and uses the Iron Legion drones to attack them. They defeat the drones and Thor destroys Ultron's body, but his AI inhabits a remaining suit and flees with the Scepter.
Ultron flies to the Sokovia base and builds an army of drones to control. He also wins Pietro and Wanda Maximoff to his cause since they seek vengeance on Tony Stark due to the death of their parents in an attack which used Stark weaponry.
Ultron also assassinates Wolfang von Strucker. 
The Avengers attempt to prevent Ultron from securing vibranium from Ulysses Klaue (who loses an arm due to an angry Ultron) in South Africa, but are stymied by Wanda's mind-altering powers.
Hulk goes on a rampage in Johannesburg due to these visions and Tony Stark summons the Hulkbuster armor to defeat him after a lengthy battle.
The team goes into hiding after this terrifying and destructive public display while Thor goes off in search of answers to his own visions, leading him to discover the existence of the Infinity Stones and the Scepter's Mind Stone.
The Avengers, joined by the Maximoff twins who have learned of Ultron's true plans to destroy the human race, arrive in Seoul, South Korea to stop Ultron from completing his vibranium body. They secure the robot body, but lose Romanoff to Ultron.
Stark and Banner attempt to upload the remaining J.A.R.V.I.S. program into the synthetic body which houses the mind stone in its forehead. With Thor's assistance, Vision is born. He proves his worthiness by lifting Mj'lnir and handing it to Thor before siding with the Avengers against Ultron.
Stark uploads a new A.I. named F.R.I.D.A.Y. into his Mark XLV armor.
The Avengers head to Sokovia for a final showdown against Ultron and to rescue Black Widow, while S.H.I.E.L.D. agents arrive to evacuate citizens of the now-floating city.
Pietro Maximoff sacrifices himself to save Hawkeye and a young Sokovian boy.
Hulk tosses Ultron from the hijacked Quinjet, but then sets the autopilot for an unknown destination to keep from endangering the team anymore. For two years, Banner remains in Hulk form, winding up on the planet Sakaar and battling in gladiatorial combat as the Grandmaster's champion.
Wanda Maximoff rips out Ultron's core and Vision destroys the final Ultron sentry containing the insane A.I.
The Avengers prevent an extinction-level event that would have been caused by Sokovia crashing to Earth, but the son of Miriam Sharpe and Helmut Zemo's family die in the battle. 
The New Avengers Facility breaks ground in New York.
Jonathan Pangborn heads to Kamar-Taj to find a cure for his injuries.
Thanos retrieves his Infinity Gauntlet, sans Infinity Stones, and vows, 'I'll do it myself. Coulson loses his hand during the retaking of the Illiad.
Terrigen Crystals dissolve in the world's oceans and make their way into fish oil pills Jemma Simmons is swallowed up by the Monolith and winds up on an alien planet known as Maveth.
The New Avengers facility officially opens (in record time), but Hawkeye returns to his wife and newborn son, Stark appears to retire, Banner is AWOL, and Thor is pursuing answers to his visions on Asgard. Captain America and Black Widow prepare to train the New Avengers: Vision, Scarlet Witch, Falcon, and War Machine.
Luke Cage starts working at Pop's Barber Shop.
Senate hearings for Sokovia relief efforts begin.
Stark Industries announce new scholarships.
Scott Lang is released from prison and gets a job at Baskin-Robbins.
Darren Cross presents his Yellowjacket suit during a meeting with Pym Technologies and other companies while also privately revealing to Hank Pym that he knows of his past as Ant-Man. Pym plans to put a stop to Cross' efforts.
Scott Lang is fired from Baskin-Robbins and kicked out of his daughter's birthday party. He signs on to a heist job. 
Having successfully pulled of the heist, Lang tries on the suit he found in the home's safe. He tries it out, shrinking him down to size and hearing Hank Pym's voice in the suit.
When Lang tries to return the suit, he's arrested and sent back to prison. Here he meets Pym in person for the first time and learns that the older man orchestrated the whole heist. An ant delivers the Ant-Man suit to Lang on Pym's behalf, allowing him to escape prison.
Lang masters the suit's abilities and combat training thanks to assistance from Pym and Hope van Dyne.
Lang battles Falcon at the New Avengers facility and manages to steal a device that will help him to liberate the Yellowjacket suit.
Lang infiltrates Pym Technologies HQ and battles Cross, who dons the Yellowjacket suit. The battle continues at Lang's ex-wife's house in his daughter's bedroom where Cross is defeated. His plans to sell his tech to HYDRA are foiled when Cross is killed by Lang shrinking into the Quantum Realm to destroy the suit.
Lang figures out a way to emerge from the Quantum Realm, but forgets it upon his sudden enlargement.
Hank Pym presents Hope van Dyne with a new Wasp suit.
Groot is now 'adolescent' in maturity level and size, making Peter Quill appreciate how tough Yondu's role as guardian really was.
Members of the Dogs of Hell biker gang are killed by a mysterious attacker. 
Gunfire tears apart the Burren Club where the Kitchen Irish were meeting. Only Grotto survives.
Frank Castle attempts to finish his hit on Grotto, but the man is saved by Karen Page. Daredevil intervenes but is concussed and wounded during a rooftop fight.
Castle goes after Grotto again but is once again foiled by Daredevil. However, Castle is able to take Daredevil hostage in the process.
Daredevil escapes his chains but Castle kills Grotto anyway and forces Daredevil to fight against the Dogs of Hell biker gang in order to flee.
The Kitchen Irish kidnap and torture Castle, now known as the Punisher.
Daredevil learns of Castle's family during a conversation in St. Michael's Cemetery.
Elektra Natchios returns asking for Matt Murdock's help.
Daredevil and Elektra defeat the Yakuza who ambush them at Elektra's penthouse.
Peter Parker is bitten by a radioactive spider.
Peter Parker decides to use his new abilities to protect people as Spider-Man.
Luke Cage defends Connie and Jin Lin from thugs attempting to extort them, though he busts up Genghis Connie's in the fight.
Pop's Barber Shop is shot up and Pops dies.
Frank Castle is imprisoned on Ryker's Island and wastes no time in attempting to kill Dutton after getting the information that he needed from him. Double-crossed by Wilson Fisk, Castle also manages to kill all of Dutton's allies before being subdued by prison guards. He soon escapes prison.
Daredevil investigates a Hand facility in which children are being drained of their blood. He discovers that Yoshioka is still alive. Luke Cage smashes his way through the Crispus Attucks complex and steals the ill-gotten money. Cottonmouth blows up Genghis Connie's but fails to kill Luke Cage in the process.
The Hand attack Metro-General Hospital and retrieve the children they had been draining of blood.
Sam Wilson searches for Ant-Man and hears stories about Spider-Man in the process.
Daredevil and Elektra take on the vast numbers of the Hand and are assisted by Punisher and Stick. Elektra dies in the battle, however.
A monstrous Inhuman known as Lash arrives, one of many new Inhumans transformed by the Terrigen Mist.
After 4,722 hours, Simmons is finally rescued from Maveth and returns to Earth.
Mariah Dillard kills Cottonmouth.
Willis Stryker, a.k.a. Diamondback, wounds Luke Cage with a Judas Bullet.
Luke Cage duels Diamondback (now in his power suit) through the streets of Harlem.
Luke Cage is arrested for his escape from Seagate Prison, though Claire Temple mentions a lawyer she knows who might help him. 
Elektra's funeral is held. Nelson and Murdock close their tab at Josie's Bar.
Frank Castle returns home and burns it to the ground, but not before retrieving a disc labeled 'Micro. Matt Murdock reveals his identity as Daredevil to Karen Page.
Elektra is revealed to be the next incarnation of Black Sky.
21st Century: A disillusioned Kaecilius confronts the Ancient One
Coulson presumably kills Ward during a fight on Maveth.
Ward's corpse is reanimated by It, the parasitic Inhuman also known as Hive and Alveus.
Kaecilius forms the Zealots and rebels against the Ancient One with the aim of performing rituals found in the Book of Cagliostro.
The Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. covertly order drinks for Lance Hunter and Bobbi Morse at a bar as part of a 'spy's goodbye. Kaecilius and the Zealots break into the Kamar-Taj library, decapitate the librarian, and steal pages from the Book of Cagliostro. The Ancient One pursues them as they hop through portals to London, trapping them in the Mirror Dimension, but is unable to prevent Kaecilius' escape.
Video surfaces of Spider-Man preventing a car from crashing into a bus.
Thaddeus Ross becomes Secretary of State.
Crossbones, a.k.a. Brock Rumlow, assaults the Institute for Infectious Disease in Lagos, Nigeria in order to steal a biological weapon. Captain America, Falcon, Scarlet Witch, and Black Widow stop him.
Crossbones detonates a suicide bomb, but the blast is contained by Scarlet Witch. Unfortunately, the explosion also damages a building and kills civilians, including Wakandan aid relief workers.
Tony Stark's M.I.T. speech ends with him being approached by Miriam Sharpe, a grieving mother who blames him for her son's death in Sokovia.
The UN releases the Sokovia Accords following deliberation over the attack in Lagos. 
Stark signs the Sokovia Accords, registering him under the control of the federal government. He believes control and restriction of the Avengers will prevent needless destruction and death.
Doctor Stephen Strange survives a terrible car crash, but his hands are irreparably damaged.
Peggy Carter dies peacefully in her sleep.
Wakandan king T'Chaka publicly supports the Sokovia Accords.
The Avengers are given three days to sign the accords or they will be forced to resign. Romanoff, Rhodes, and Vision side with Stark, while Wilson and Maximoff disagree and side with Rogers.
Helmut Zero tortures a HYDRA agent for information regarding the trigger words used to manipulate the Winter Soldier.
Sharon Carter delivers a eulogy at Peggy Carter's funeral in London, revealing that she's Peggy's niece.
Romanoff meets T'Challa, son of T'Chaka, during the signing of the accords in Vienna, but are interrupted by a terrorist bombing orchestrated by Helmut Zemo. T'Chaka dies in the blast and Zemo flees to Berlin.
Jeffrey Mace is caught on camera during the bombing and is inadvertently labeled a hero by the media.
Bucky Barnes is blamed for the bombing. T'Challa, a.k.a. Black Panther, swears vengeance on him, while Rogers and Wilson head to Bucharest to reach the Winter Soldier first. 
War Machine arrests Captain America, Black Panther, and the Winter Soldier in Bucharest after a tense battle. They arrive at the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre along with Sam Wilson.
Helmut Zemo infiltrates the facility and triggers the Winter Soldier, forcing him to divulge the details of a secret mission and the HYDRA Siberian Facility where he was held. He then orders the Winter Soldier to attack Rogers, Sharon Carter, Black Widow, and even the Black Panther before fleeing.
Upon recapturing Bucky, Captain American learns that Zemo likely plans to thaw out the other Winter Soldiers. Rogers calls on Hawkeye and recruits Ant-Man for help. Hawkeye breaks Scarlet Witch out of the New Avengers compound to join the team; she uses her powers to subdue Vision temporarily.
Stark and Black Widow, meanwhile, call in Black Panther, War Machine, and Spider-Man, whom Stark gifts a scholarship and a new costume.
The battle at Flughafen Leipzig-Halle airport occurs between the heroes with Captain America, Falcon, Scarlet Witch, Ant-Man, Hawkeye, and Winter Soldier taking on Iron Man, War Machine, Vision, Spider-Man, Black Widow, and Black Panther.
The airport is substantially damaged in the battle and War Machine becomes paralyzed from a fall. Captain America and Winter Soldier manage to escape and fly to Siberia to defeat Zemo thanks to Black Widow switching sides. Falcon, Scarlet Witch, Hawkeye and Ant-Man are arrested.
Stark is alerted to Zemo's frame-up, learns of his own mistake, and visits the imprisoned Avengers to learn of Captain America's plan to stop the villain from Falcon, promising to go to Siberia as an ally. Black Panther covertly tracks Iron Man on his journey to seek revenge on the Winter Soldier. At the HYDRA facility, Captain America, Winter Soldier, and Iron Man temporarily put their differences aside to defeat Zemo, but they discover that the remaining Winter Soldiers have all been killed by Zemo. He reveals his plan to tear the Avengers apart due to their role in the death of his family. Black Panther overhears this, and withdraws from the impending battle. He later spares Zemo's life and prevents him from committing suicide so that he can head to prison. Zemo reveals the Winter Soldier's hand in the death of Stark's parents and Iron Man attacks both Bucky and Captain America. Winter Soldier's metal arm is lost and Iron Man's Arc Reactor is damaged, making his armor useless. Captain America leaves his shield behind since it was created by Stark's father and 'he doesn't deserve it' as Stark says.
T'Challa delivers Zemo to the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre in Berlin, accompanied by Rogers and Barnes who fly with him to Wakanda.
Everett Ross taunts the imprisoned Zemo. Lash attacks Hive and frees Daisy Johnson from his sway.
Peter Parker is returned home from Berlin by Tony Stark, in time for school.
Barnes volunteers to be frozen again until his mind-control can be completely purged.
Stark arrives at the New Avengers facility and assists Rhodes in his physical therapy.
A letter from Rogers apologizes for everything that happened between them and a phone gives Stark access to Rogers and his team should the need arise.
Rogers frees his imprisoned teammates from the Raft. Ross informs Stark, who simply puts the Secretary of State on hold.
Around this time, Rogers and Barnes head to Wakanda.
Daisy leaves S.H.I.E.L.D. and becomes the vigilante known as Quake.
The events of Black Panther take place; see the breakdown below. 
After numerous failed surgeries, Stephen Strange meets with Joseph Pangborn and learns of the mystical Kamar-Taj. He spends the last of his funds to travel to Nepal.
Strange is eventually admitted into Kamar-Taj where he meets Karl Mordo and the Ancient One and begins his training in the mystical arts.
Jeffrey Mace goes through the Project Patriot program to improve public perception of the Inhuman race.
Jeffrey Mace becomes director of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Peter Parker ditches the Midtown High School Homecoming dance in order to take down the Vulture, a.k.a. Adrian Toomes.
Man or Mandarin: The Trevor Slattery Story airs on TV
Kaecilius and his Zealots successfully contact Dormammu.
Stephen Strange's training continues. The Ancient One deposits him on Mount Everest to force his ability to use the Sling Ring. Dr. Holden Radcliffe brings his artificial intelligence Aida to life using a Life-Model Decoy body. 
Cellphone video captures Ghost Rider driving away in the Hell Charger. 
Strange learns of the power of the Eye of Agamotto as Kaecilius and his Zealots destroy the London Sanctum and those defending it. Strange becomes trapped in the Sanctum Sanctorum and defends it as best he can, assisted by the Cloak of Levitation and artifacts like the Rotunda of Gateways, the Brazier of Bom'Galiath, and the Crimson Bands of Cyttorak.
Strange is wounded and travels to Metro-General Hospital so that Christine Palmer can save his life while he gives her direction (and duels the Zealot Lucian) from the astral plane.
Returning to the Sanctum Sanctorum, he's granted the position of protector of the Sanctum by the Ancient One, but when he challenges her on the topic of pulling energy from the Dark Dimension, she flees.
Kaecilius returns to finish the job and Strange pulls everyone into the Mirror Dimension. The Ancient One saves Strange and Mordo, but suffers a mortal wound in the process.
Despite getting the Ancient One to the hospital, she dies, but not before warning Strange of the dangers of Dormammu.
The battle at the Hong Kong sanctum goes poorly until Strange uses the Eye of Agamotto to reverse time, save the Sanctum's Masters from death, and undo the destruction to the city. Kaecilius breaks free of the spell and manages to summon Dormammu's Dark Dimension anyway since it is 'beyond time. Strange travels into the Dark Dimension and creates a time loop that eventually forces Dormammu to bargain with the sorcerer after many, many, many deaths.
Strange ends the loop only after Dormammu banishes himself from Earth along with Kaecilius and the Zealots, who he transforms into Mindless Ones and pulls into the Dark Dimension.
Mordo leaves the Masters of the Mystic Arts, disillusioned by The Ancient One's reveal.
Strange returns the Eye of Agamotto to Kamar-Taj before taking up his role as protector of the Sanctum Sanctorum in New York. 
Ghost Rider sightings increase and the people of Los Angeles regard him as a vigilante.
Quake and Ghost Rider duel in the junkyard.
Ghost Rider frees Eli Morrow from South Ridge Penitentiary, but loses him when his rage takes over and he kills Santino Noguera of the Fifth Street Locos.
Melinda May is replaced with a Life-Model Decoy as part of Aida's plans.
Aida is beheaded, but another version of Aida talks with Radcliffe at their home, where it's revealed that the first Aida had been programmed to steal the Darkhold. keeps attempting to escape the Framework simulation, which soon includes Kitsworth, Coulson, Fitz, Simmons, Mackenzie, Johnson and Rodriguez.
The Framework features an alternate history that ranges from HYDRA's founding in 400 CE to Skye and Ward's relationship in the late April, 2017.
Robbie Reyes transfers the Ghost Rider power to Coulson who makes a deal with the Spirit of Vengeance in exchange for killing Aida.
Mackenzie and Rodriguez finally decide to leave the simulation, waking up on Zephyr One.
Ghost Rider uses his Hellfire Chain to open a portal to Hell and return the Darkhold there.
Holden Radcliffe is forced to remain in the Framework, both vanishing upon deletion.
Coulson's team enjoys a celebratory dinner, but are apprehended by a mysterious man who wields a device that freezes them.
Karl Mordo pays a visit to Jonathan Pangborn and removes his powers, claiming that there are already too many sorcerers in the world.
Coulson awakens and looks out the window onto outer space.
Thor visits Doctor Strange requesting assistance in finding Odin. Strange agrees, on the condition that Thor and Loki immediately return to Asgard once Odin is located.
Roughly one week after Zemo's apprehension at the end of the mission. There's a little bit of wiggle room regarding when Steve Rogers and Bucky Barnes arrived, and when Barnes was apparently cured and thawed. Returning home to Wakanda to assume the throne after T'Chaka's assassination, T'Challa first travels with Dora Milaje General Okoye to liberate his ex-lover Nakia from her undercover mission in order to have her by his side at the impending coronation ceremony. At the ceremony, T'Challa is challenged by the Jabari Tribe leader M'Baku, but emerges victorious and lets M'Baku live.
Now Black Panther in earnest, T'Challa learns of the whereabouts of Ulysses Klaue and heads to South Korea in order to apprehend him. Though they're successful, with the help/hindrance of the CIA's Everett K. Ross, the usurper known as Killmonger breaks Klaue out of the CIA Black Site. Ross takes a bullet in the process.
Having taken Ross back to Wakanda in order to heal him, it's soon revealed to T'Challa and the Tribal Counsel that King T'Chaka killed his own brother and orphaned his nephew. That nephew is Killmonger, who returns to his ancestral nation'having killed Klaue and delivered him to the vengeance-seeking Border Tribe as tribute'in order to challenge T'Challa to the throne.
Killmonger defeats T'Challa and assumes the title and the power of Black Panther, throwing the defeated king from the waterfall.
Killmonger orders the destruction of the remaining Heart-Shaped Herbs and the delivery of Vibranium weapons to War Dogs waiting in New York, London, and Hong Kong.
Queen Ramonda, Nakia, Shuri, and a healed Ross journey to the Jabari lands to request aide from M'Baku, only to find a comatose T'Challa laid to rest on ice. He's revived with the sole remaining Heart-Shaped Herb and leads the revolt against Killmonger and his newly won allies. T'Challa's family and friends defeat the uprising with T'Challa himself mortally wounding Killmonger, who decides to die a free man rather than be healed and imprisoned. T'Challa sits with his cousin while the sun sets over a briefly divided and soon-to-begin-healing nation of Wakanda. Later, T'Challa and Shuri arrive in Oakland, CA where it's revealed that T'Challa has purchased extensive property in the area with the goal of establishing an outreach center, run by Nakia, and technological R&D facility, headed by Shuri. They make their tech clear to both the local Oakland youth and to people on the world stage, starting with the United Nations, finally emerging from their self-imposed isolation.
Back in Wakanda, Bucky Barnes emerges from a hut near the river where Shuri is helping with his recuperation. Two Years after the Battle of Sokovia. In search of the Infinity Stones, Thor seeks out (and is captured by) the fire demon Surtur in the realm of Muspelheim. Surtur is destined to bring about Ragnarok'the destruction of Asgard'but not just yet since Thor defeats him and takes his crown as a trophy.
Loki, meanwhile, has been enjoying his disguise as Odin for years now, but Thor puts a stop to that party when he returns home to Asgard. The brothers are reunited in their quest to find their father, Odin, and with the assistance of Doctor Strange, they travel to Norway to say farewell to their dying father.
With Odin's death comes the release of Hela, the banished Goddess of Death, form her millennia-long imprisonment. The first clash between Hela and her brothers ends with her destruction of Mjolnir and their flight to the bifrost bridge.
Hela continues to Asgard, the source of her power, and destroys the army opposing her (led by Hogun) while resurrecting her own army of the dead (including the giant wolf Fenris) and appointing the reluctant, traitorous Skurge as her executioner. Thor and Loki both wind up on the garbage planet Sakaar, though at different times: Loki has been there long enough to weasel his way into the good graces of the planet's ruler, the Grandmaster. Thor, however, is captured by an Asgardian Valkyrie mercenary nicknamed Scrapper 142 and thrown into the fighting pit where he faces off against the arena's champion, Hulk. Having survived the fight and escaped captivity with the help of Valkyrie (and Loki, at least temporarily), Thor is able to restore Banner to his human form thanks to a video recording from Natasha stored in the Quinjet archive. After two years as the Hulk, Banner returns, though he's concerned that he'll never be able to do so again should the Hulk be allowed to come out just one more time.
When Thor, Banner, and Valkyrie arrive on Asgard, Hela's forces are about to decimate the rebellious Heimdall and the Asgardians he's protecting. Banner becomes the Hulk (after a painful fall down to the Rainbow Bridge) and battles Hela's resurrected Fenris Wolf and the undead forces led by Skurge.
Thor and Valkyrie battle Hela, though the God of Thunder loses an eye in this effort. His resultant vision of Odin channels untapped power into Thor and he's able to rejoin the fight.
Meanwhile, a revolution on Sakaar, led in part by the Kronan known as Korg and the planet's insectoid native known as Miek before they headed to Asgard to rescue the realm's inhabitants, defeated the Grandmaster, who is last seen attempting to win favor with the victors. Loki and the surviving gladiators, including Korg and Miek, arrive on Asgard to act as a lifeboat to rescue the Asgardian citizens. Skurge sacrifices himself to save his fellow Asgardians in a redemptive final act. While Thor, Hulk, and Valkyrie distract Hela, Loki liberates the crown of Surtur (possibly swiping the tesseract in the process) and summons the fire demon using the Eternal Flame, the only entity who can bring about Ragnarok and defeat Hela, at the price of the destruction of Asgard. Having escaped aboard a spaceship, an eyepatch-sporting Thor assumes the role of Ruler of Asgard and takes his throne, flanked by Heimdall, Valkyrie, Loki, Korg, and Hulk. Their plan is to head to Earth/Midgard and attempt to rebuild Asgard, perhaps in Norway. However, a massive spacecraft suddenly looms above their ship Iron Man 
Ah, the start of it all. Tony Stark is a rich and famous engineer who specializes in weapons making, a company his father started and passed down to him when he died. Tony is doing a display of his weapons at an army base in Iraq during the war because he has a weapons contract with the US government and ends up getting captured by what is assumed to be radicals. They want him to build a weapon for them and instead, he builds the first Iron Man suit in a cave to free himself. On top of all this, he has shrapnel in his chest from the explosion and ends up putting an arc-reactor (his own invention for sustainable energy) in his chest to prevent the shrapnel from getting to his heart. Basically, he ends up getting the meaning of life and realizes he should help people instead of building weapons. He changes the direction of Stark Industries making his father's old partner mad and he tries to kill him (also why Stark was taken in the first place, because his father's old partner, Obadiah Stane, wanted Stark out of the company). Tony stops making weapons, defeats Obadiah, and reveals to the world in the iconic ending that he is Iron Man.
Dr. Bruce Banner was experimenting with Gamma radiation trying to replicate the super soldier formula of sorts that made Steve Rogers/Captain America a better soldier. This went horribly wrong and he can turn into the Hulk because the gamma radiation didn't kill him. 
With the world aware that Billionaire inventor and engineer Tony Stark is Iron Man, the government is pressuring Stark to share his technology with the military. He even goes to court against the government because they state that Stark is in possession of a weapon. This is where the audience meets the obnoxious Justin Hammer, who is the new military weapons contractor. Tony proves them wrong and gets out of court, only to later get a suit taken by him from Rhodey at one of his parties that gets out of hand. Rhodey takes the suit to the military and gets it outfitted with weapons, creating the War Machine suit. Throughout the course of this, Stark has had his annual (I assume, I don't know that it is mentioned in the mission) expo, the Stark Expo, going on to showcase his inventions, while also showing others a showcase of tomorrow's technology. Justin Hammer attempts to get into the expo to do a weapons display, showing up with Iron Man style drones instead of suits. The man he hired to make the suits turned drones, Ivan Vanko, is back at Justin Hammer's lab and begins controlling them throughout the expo to kill Stark for the betrayal of their fathers working together on the Arc Reactor. Eventually, Rhodey in War Machine and Stark in his Iron Man suit take down all the drones as well as Ivan Vanko while Pepper has Justin Hammer arrested for his doings. This is also the first appearance of Black Widow coming into Tony's life as a pretend secretary, actual Shield Agent and kicks some serious butt in Hammer's lab to get to Vanko and shut down some of the drones.
Thor, who we all know as the god of thunder, lives on Asgard with his family, who happen to be the royal family of Asgard. As Odin prepares Thor to inherit the throne, there is an issue with the race called the frost giants from Jotunhiem. The frost giants have come to steal something from the vault in the royal palace of Asgard that will give them back power, and this violates their treaty with Asgard. Thor, being the warrior he is, reacts to this violation by going against his father's wishes and going to Jotunhiem with his brother, Loki, the god of mischief, and Sif and the warriors three. While in the realm of Jotunhiem, Loki discovers that he is a frost giant and that he is not the son of Odin and Frigga, the king and queen of Asgard. He realizes that he is adopted and is told that he was taken from Jotunhiem during the battle Asgard had that established the peace treaty. Odin claimed that Loki was left alone and unattended as an infant on Jotunhiem, when really he was the son of their ruler that Odin was keeping and raising to keep the treaty intact and to use Loki as leverage. For his disobedience, Thor is stripped of his powers and banished to Earth, or Midgard, by his father, who then enters what is called an Odinsleep from the betrayal and needs to recharge. This leaves Loki in charge of the kingdom of Asgard to cause all the mischief he wants. Knowing his brother is stranded on Earth and is without power supposedly, Loki sends a large Asgardian warrior to take Thor out and ensure that Loki is the only one that will take over the throne of Asgard. Thor has misadventures on Earth, meeting Jane Foster, losing his hammer, not being able to pick it up when he finds it because he is not worthy, meeting Phil Coulson of Shield and fighting the warrior Loki sends with Sif and the warriors three in the middle of New Mexico. Eventually, Thor is worthy and can once again wield his hammer, and is welcomed back to Asgard. The mission ends with Loki falling from the Bifrost which then breaks and everyone thinking he has died. Back in the 1940s, scrawny Steve Rogers wants nothing more to fight in the war and help defend his country from Nazi Germany; however, he is deemed as "too sickly" with asthma and other things that make him ineligible to fight. His best friend, Bucky Barnes, gets into the military and is assigned to the 107th and is to leave for England. Steve has applied to be in the Army multiple times, which is illegal to falsify documents to enlist; however, his family is gone and he feels that if people are laying down their lives, he should do no less than that. Steve is a good man and because of that, he is chosen to come to an army base and train. Steve proves that strength isn't needed to be a good soldier as he is brave and kind. Steve jumps on dummy grenade, thinking it is a real one, and that seals the deal for him being chosen as the test subject for an experiment to make a super soldier. Steve gets the serum injection, buffs up and becomes a super soldier, is reminded to always be a good man, and ends up chasing down a person from the Nazi deep science division Hydra that broke into the lab to steal the serum. The Army tells Steve that they wanted a whole army and not just him and they make Steve be the cheerleader for America who goes on tour dancing for entertainment and to encourage Americans to buy bonds and help the war effort. When Steve is on his tour, he ends up performing at an army base and he hears that the 107th (which is where his bestie Bucky was placed) went missing behind enemy lines. Steve automatically puts his America outfit to use as he goes to rescue the soldiers and Bucky. Steve finds and rescues hundreds of men by himself while he also takes down a Hydra base and memorizes the map with the other base locations. When he marches back to the camp with Bucky by his side and all the soldiers behind him is when he officially becomes Captain America. The army wants Captain America to wipe Hydra off the map, so Cap and his team take down all the Hydra bases and begin their search for Johann Shmidt and his sidekick, Arnim Zola. While looking for them on a bullet train Zola is on in Siberia, Bucky is helping Steve fight when he falls from the train and off a cliff. Steve is very sad and he goes on one last mission to defeat Hydra and stop Shmidt or Red Skulls plan to blow up cities and restart the world. Steve "kills" Red Skull and has to put the ship he is on in the water so that the missiles don't hit land and hurt anyone else. From then, Captain America is frozen for 70 years and awakens in New York City in 2012 at a Shield facility. Nick Fury ends up recruiting him to help America once again and be an Avenger. Perhaps the biggest take away from this mission for approaching Infinity War is that this mission is the first to feature an infinity stone, the Tesseract, which Shmidt finds at the beginning of the mission and uses to make weapons for Hydra. The Tesseract is the infinity stone known as the Space stone. Avengers When Loki fell from the Bifrost at the end of Thor, he was believed to be dead; however, he is on Earth or Midgard, stealing the Tesseract for Thanos to bring an army of the alien race, Chitauri, to invade New York City and take over the Earth. In order to stop Loki from getting away with the Tesseract, which is an unlimited source of power and energy and an infinity stone, Nick Fury of SHIELD assembles a group of superheroes to defend the Earth. At first it is a makeshift team of members that did not want to join and did not get along working together, consisting of Captain America, Iron Man, Black Widow, Thor (when he comes to get his brother to stop what he is doing on Earth), and the Hulk (who originally joins as Bruce Banner, to do science experiments and help find the Tesseract and not to fight). Hawkeye is held captive by Loki doing his bidding by Loki's mind control, but later joins the team after being free from Loki's grasp to fight him with the team. After many issues and fights, the "death" of SHIELD Agent Phil Coulson at Loki's hands brings the team together and inspires them to defend New York City from the Chitauri. Everyone fights off the aliens, stops Loki, and saves civilians while Tony Stark puts a nuclear bomb that was launched at Manhattan through the black hole the Chitauri are coming out of to stop the bomb from exploding and stop the aliens from coming through. After the battle, everyone gets shawarma and Loki is taken back to Asgard with Thor to be punished for his actions. SHIELD is told that the Avengers will be there if and whenever the Earth should need them again. Also, though you don't really know this during the mission, Loki's scepter is the home of an Infinity stone known as the Mind stone, which is why he can control minds with his scepter. You suspect that one might be there but it is cleared up in Age of Ultron.
Tony is plagued with stress, insomnia, and PTSD ever since the New York attack in Avengers. Going through the black hole to save NYC from a nuclear bomb may have helped the city, but Tony is experiencing traumatic stress from going into space. All of this worry has Tony very reliant on his collection of Iron Man suits and his life and relationships are suffering. Tony is dealing with all of this and misses that a person from his past that he neglected while building up Stark Enterprises is out for blood, specifically Tony's. After his Malibu house is blown up, Tony personally goes after a terrorist known as the Mandarin, who is really a cover up for this old enemy of Tony's, Aldrich Killian, science experiments gone wrong. Killian is trying to turn people into soldiers that can mutate and regrow missing limbs and fight and ends up making this, but sometimes the people explode. The Mandarin terrorist is just a ploy to cover up for scientific experiments going wrong and spontaneously combusting. When Tony finds out that the Mandarin is a fake, he is also told by Killian that they have Pepper and are injecting her with the serum that does this to people. Tony enlists Rhodey and with his help, they save Pepper, the president of the United States, and also get rid of Killian. 
In Asgard's past, the gods of Asgard defeated an evil race known as the Dark Elves from spreading their darkness across the entire nine realms. They were going to do this with an infinity stone called the Aether. When Asgard defeated them, they took and hid the Aether and neutralized or killed all the Dark Elves, or so they thought. A fleet of Dark Elves hid on a spaceship, to be woken when the Aether was found so they could capture it and complete their mission. Hundreds of years later, Jane Foster of all people finds the Aether when exploring an abandoned warehouse in London looking for a scientific explanation behind what is called the convergence, or all nine realms aligning. When Jane finds the Aether, she becomes its host, forcing Thor to bring her to Asgard to help get the Aether out of her and save her before Dark Elf, Malekith, captures her and uses the weapon to destroy the Nine Realms during the alignment of the nine realms. The Dark Elf, Malekith, comes looking for the Aether on Asgard and kills many people. When the elves flee because they cannot find the Aether, Thor tells his father that he will bring Jane to the Dark Elves planet and have them take the Aether out of her. This way he can save Jane and kill the elves and not get anyone on Asgard hurt. His father says no and Thor turns to his brother Loki. Loki is then let out of his imprisonment by Thor to help him save Jane. Loki gets them off of Asgard and to the Dark Elves planet, where the Aether is taken out of Jane, but the elves take the Aether and Loki dies. There is then a battle on Midgard because of the convergence, where Thor stops the Dark Elves, kills them all and gets the Aether. The Aether is an Infinity stone known as the Reality stone and the stone is brought to the collector who you see again in Guardians of the Galaxy at the end of this mission. Loki, who is thought to be dead, is not dead and sits on the throne of Asgard, impersonating his father. 
Peter Quill is a mortal who was born on Earth and after his mother dies from cancer is picked up by an alien spaceship. We don't see much of Peter's life until about 30 years later when we see him robbing an abandoned looking planet for this orb that is worth a lot of money. He is what is known as a ravager and he is getting the orb for the people who abducted him, that is until he double-crosses them to sell it. The orb contains an infinity stone, the Power stone. The orb is desired by many people, one of them being Ronan the Conqueror who is working under Thanos. Ronan wants the orb to give to Thanos and in return, Thanos will give Ronan the planet of Xander for him to destroy over what they did to his people, the Kree. Thanos's daughter, Gamora, is sent by Ronan to go collect the orb and when she does a fight breaks out between Gamora, Peter, and Rocket Raccoon, who just wants to collect Gamora or Peter for their bounties because he is a bounty hunter. They all end up in a high-security jail for their crimes and this is where they come together to break out and sell the orb to collect the money and split it. This jail is where they meet Drax the Destroyer, who at first wants revenge on Gamora for her help with Ronan, until he decides he'd rather help her kill Ronan and save Xander. When they go to sell the orb, they find out it is an infinity stone and they want to take it to Xander to the Nova Core to keep it safe. While on their way, they warn Xander of Ronan's upcoming attack and they become friends and band together to save the galaxy from Ronan. 
We meet Cap again after his first mission with the Avengers and he is working with Nick Fury and the rest of SHIELD helping the government protect the United States from whatever threat might be out there. Cap is very hesitant of trusting the government but is still trying to help as many people as he can and thinks for now this is the best way. On a mission with Black Widow, or Natasha, while Cap is helping civilians that are being held hostage on a freighter, Natasha is downloading SHIELD files. Cap is already suspicious after Avengers of SHIELD due to their desire to build weapons with the Tesseract like he saw in his WWII days and is now growing even more suspicious. Nick Fury ends up getting in a car chase and fight where he finds out that SHIELD is infiltrated and compromised. He goes to Steve Rogers' apartment only to get shot and then dies (not really though, he pulls one of the usual, dead but not really dead tricks). Cap has an incredible elevator fight scene when he finds out that SHIELD is compromised. He and Natasha then look at what is on the SHIELD flash drive Natasha got from the freighter and go to the location on it which is an old Army base that Cap trained at in New Jersey that may have answers. This Army base has a computer brain version of Arnim Zola, a German Hydra scientist, who has been growing Hydra and infiltrating SHIELD to be Hydra right under their noses. SHIELD is trying to actively take out Steve Rogers and Natasha, so they go lay low at Cap's new friend Sam Wilson's place. Sam used to be in the military in a flying suit with wings and gets it out again because Captain America needs his help. SHIELD was making helicarrier style things that were made to take out possible threats before they happen. Only it was really Hydra building them to take out people who would not be compliant in their ruling. Cap, Sam is who known as the Falcon, and Black Widow, with the help of Nick Fury (now that he is "back from the dead"), and Maria Hill plan to infiltrate SHIELD and shut down the helicarriers. This mission is really complex and a summary really doesn't do it justice. The most complicated part of the mission is the Winter Soldier part. Hydra has been working with the Winter Soldier who is none other than Steve Rogers OG bestie, Bucky Barnes, that fell off the train in Siberia during WWII. Hydra found him, saved him, and trained him to be an elite spy, soldier, and most of all a brainwashed lackey for them. He fights Steve without knowing who he is and attempts to do Hydra's bidding and save the helicarriers from going down. In the end, Cap destroys the helicarriers but won't hurt Bucky because he is with him "until the end of the line." When the helicarriers blow up to stop Hydra, the one Cap and Bucky are in crashes into the water and Bucky pulls Steve out of the water, and it is unclear if he remembers him or not. He then walks away and is not heard from again for a while. The mission ends with Cap and Sam trying to find Bucky.
This is the next installment of the Avengers where everyone is back together in action. They are all trying to find who took Loki's scepter from SHIELD after the SHIELD fall out. When the Avengers find the scepter and get it back in their hands, Tony and Bruce decide to play with it in an attempt to make artificial intelligence. They do not think they are succeeding until Ultron literally walks into the living room of Avengers tower, formerly known as Stark Tower, where they are all relaxing after a party. Ultron "destroys" Jarvis, Tony's computer counterpart that runs his life and wants to "help" mankind by starting over. He accesses the whole internet and is trying to take down the Avengers, he leaves the tower with Loki's scepter, and the Avengers resort to paper files to try to stop him. They find out there was stolen Vibrianum from Wakanda and they go to the border of South Africa to track it down thinking Ultron will be there. He is and after a fight with Ultron, the Avengers also meet his twin helpers for the first time, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver, who were given powers from Loki's scepter as a science experiment by the people who stole it. The twins' parents died at the hands of a Stark weapon during a war in their country, so they want to hurt the Avengers for the pain of losing their parents and they help Ultron. That is until he goes to Sokovia and they see he wants to hurt all people and restart the world, not just the Avengers. The twins change their tune and they help the Avengers destroy him instead. Ultron also tries to build his own artificial intelligence, like him but stronger, with the Mind stone from inside Loki's scepter. When he does this, the Avengers steal Ultron's creation, add Jarvis who is not really dead to the mind stone instead, and create artificial intelligence making Vision. Vision having the mind stone as part of him and being logical does not help Ultron even though he is partially his creation but instead helps the Avengers and later joins the team. In the end, there is a large battle on Sokovia, involving the city being lifted into the air and saving as many people as possible, the injuries here lead to the Sokovian Accords. Ultron is defeated, Quicksilver dies, and Scarlet Witch joins the Avengers to use her powers for good. Avengers convert an old Stark facility into a compound built in upstate NY to train their new Avengers recruits.
Forced out of his own company by former protege, Darren Cross, Dr. Hank Pym recruits Scott Lang, an ex-criminal and master thief just released from prison to help him save his company. After being released from prison and then a brief stint at Baskin Robins, Scott Lang decides that in order to make some money and see his daughter Cassie, he must break into a place again. This break in happens to be to the house of Hank Pym where he finds the Ant-Man suit and steals it. After much convincing and training, Scott becomes Ant-Man, trained by Hank Pym and armed with a suit that allows him to shrink in size, possess superhuman strength and control an army of ants. Scott robs the Avengers compound thinking it is an abandoned Stark warehouse for something needed for the Yellowjacket heist to get the suit. While there, Scott meets Sam, or Falcon, fights him, gets the object needed to help break into Pym Tech, and get the suit. With the help of Scott's delinquent friends, they get Scott into Pym Tech and when he goes to steal the Yellowjacket suit Darren Cross catches him. Darren Cross then puts on Yellowjacket suit and fights Ant-Man. Scott takes Darren Cross down so he can't sell his Yellowjacket suit and other weapons to Hydra Agents and ends up going subatomic while he does this. He ends up finding his way back and then Scott starts working with Hank Pym as the superhero Ant-Man. Later, Falcon recruits Ant-Man for Captain America's side in Civil War.
At least 6 months to a year after the Sokovia attack, the United Nations has come together and 117 countries have agreed that the Avengers need to no longer be a private organization with no rules. These countries feel that they need to be policed and held more accountable for their actions, so they attempt to get the Sokovian Accords ratified, stating that the Avengers will be governed. The UN will get to decide where they go and where they don't go, based on the accords and not all of the Avengers are in favor of them. Tony Stark, feeling guilty for innocent deaths that occurred during attacks they've fought in, is for the accords and attempts to get all the Avengers in favor of them. Steve Rogers or Captain America is the leader of not being in favor of the accords. He states that they would be governed by people and people's agendas change. He saw this first hand in The Winter Soldier and has a distrust of the government stating that they might send them where they don't deem necessary or might not send them somewhere they need to go. This pits Tony Stark and Steve Rogers against each other as they disagree over the accords. Then it gets more complicated when the Winter Solider or Bucky Barnes "reappears" during a bombing of the UN where the Accords are being ratified. Captain America finds him and defends him, putting him outside the law, along with the Falcon, Sam Wilson. From then on, Iron Man and Captain America recruit more people for their side and fight in an airport that Steve Rogers and Bucky are trying to leave to get to possible other winter soldiers in Siberia. In the end, Tony Stark realizes that maybe the Accords and being governed by people that aren't themselves might not be good and that Bucky was not responsible for the UN bombing and goes to help Steve and Bucky in Siberia. This is where he finds out that while Bucky was brainwashed to be the Winter Soldier, he killed Tony's parents and that starts yet another rousing fight between Captain America and Iron Man. The villain of this mission was a man named Zemo whose family died in the Sokovia attack and wanted the Avengers to suffer. Knowing he could not defeat the Avengers, he got them to turn on each other and implode, claiming something destroyed from the inside cannot be repaired. The mission ends with Bucky losing his metal arm that Hydra gave him and Captain America dropping his shield and essentially giving up the mantle of Captain America for Bucky. This is also where Steve Rogers becomes the nomad instead of Captain America because of his distrust of the government and their agendas. This mission is the first appearance of our newest friendly neighborhood Spider-Man, Tom Holland, as well.
Doctor Stephen Strange is an arrogant man but is very intelligent and well educated. He works as a highly successful surgeon who typically only works high-end cases that are treatable and will give him praise and fame for being the great surgeon he is. He is known for having incredibly steady hands on top of his quick wit and knowledge, which is what makes him a great doctor. All of this changes drastically when he gets in a horrible car accident and is lucky to be alive. He has extensive nerve damage in his hands, meaning he can no longer be a surgeon. In his attempt to try everything to be able to continue doing what he loves, he goes to Kathmandu, India to try to find a place that has healed people worse than him. While there, he is taught by the ancient one to expand his mind and learns very quickly and becomes a powerful sorcerer. While Strange is learning and training, an ex-student of the ancient one is working with the dark one, Dormammu, to take over the earth and make it where time does not exist and everyone is immortal because of that. Using what Strange has learned and the Eye of Agamotto, an Infinity stone known as the Time stone, he defends the sanctums put in place to defend the world from evil forces and ends up becoming the master of the New York sanctum. In the end, he defeats Dormammu by annoying him with an endless time loop until he leaves Earth, promising to never return.
The Guardians are asked by the Sovereign to protect their priceless batteries from being stolen. After they are repaid by receiving Nebula, Gamora's sister, it is revealed that Rocket stole a couple of batteries. Finding out about the thievery, the Sovereign send a fleet out after the Guardians for the slight against their country and for committing "heresy of the highest order." While escaping the Sovereign fleet, the Guardians are helped by a "little one-inch man" who approaches them on the planet they've crash landed on as Peters father. Peter has never known who his father is, but hesitantly agrees to go to his planet with Gamora and Drax. While they are gone, Rocket and Baby Groot are captured by Yondu and his Ravager fleet with Nebula's help and taken back to their ship. There, Yondu is overthrown as leader of his own ship by Taserface and locked away with Rocket until Baby Groot free's them. Yondu, knowing the type of man Peter's father is, takes Rocket and Baby Groot to go save the other Guardians from him. Once all reunited, it is revealed to Peter that his father is not only a celestial who wants to take over the entire universe but also that he is responsible for killing Peter's mother. The Guardians then defend the galaxy from Peter's father, after defeating another Sovereign fleet that comes to attack them. In the end, Peter realizes that Yondu was more of a father than his biological dad ever would be, just as Yondu dies. Throughout the entire mission, Baby Groot is adorable and doesn't like hats because he thinks it means people have weird shaped heads. 
Directly following Civil War, Spider-Man returns to school, even though he'd rather be an Avenger. He is distracted throughout the school year trying to prove himself to be more than a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man to Tony Stark, who has become his superhero mentor and father figure. Peter attempts to juggle his school life and his crime-fighting life while he discovers that someone is stealing old alien technology and making weapons out of it. A lot of chaos ensues at the national decathlon in Washington DC while Peter investigates and ends up discovering the Vulture, the man who is making the weapons. He later ends up tearing the Staten Island Ferry apart in a fight until Iron Man comes to help him. This is when Stark takes the suit from Peter telling him that if he is "nothing without the suit, you shouldn't have it" and teaching him what it means to be a hero. In the end, Peter takes down the Stark plane that the vulture was trying to steal after it cleared out Avengers tower of all their gear and moved it into the compound. He also found out that the Vulture was his Homecoming dates father. He has him arrested and all without his suit. This is when Tony offers him a spot on the Avengers and his suit back and Peter turns it down to stay in school. 
This hilarious masterpiece features Thor and his brother Loki, attempting to stop Ragnarok, or the desolation of Asgard that is being brought on from the sister they didn't know existed, Hela, the goddess of death. Thor and Loki encounter Doctor Strange when they arrive in New York looking for their father and then hear about Hela from their father right before he dies and she appears to kill them. Loki summons the bifrost and Hela gets sent to Asgard to take it over while Loki and Thor fall out and land on the strange planet of Sakaar. Sakaar is a planet where time is very different and the Grandmaster, the ruler of Sakaar is a colorful weirdo. Thor is captured for the Contest of Champions where he ends up fighting the Hulk. After the fight, the Hulk ends up changing back into Bruce Banner and he and Thor attempt to get off Sakaar to save Asgard. They do this with the help of Valkyrie, a female warrior from Asgard who was defeated by Hela once and has a taste for vengeance. Meanwhile, after performing a fighting act Thor has titled "get help," Loki double-crosses him and they part ways. Thor arrives at Asgard ready to fight with Hulk and Valkyrie when Loki shows up with other Sakaarian fighters from the contest of champions and a big ship to get the people of Asgard out of Asgard before its destruction. After a fight with the goddess of death, and Thor truly using his powers of thunder for the first time, Loki summons another monster who wants to destroy Asgard and they destroy Hela with it. As the people of Asgard, Thor, Hulk, Valkyrie, and Loki escape on the large ship, they realize Asgard is the people, not the place, and search under Thor's leadership for a new Asgard. Meanwhile, when leaving the vaults, Loki took the Tesseract with him before Asgard's destruction. This is the last time you see the famous Tesseract before Infinity War.
After the death of his father at the UN bombing in Civil War, T'Challa returns home to the African nation of Wakanda to take his rightful place as king. While Wakanda is perceived as a poor nation, it is the largest source of Vibrainium in the world, which is the strongest and really most powerful metal in the world. Vibrainum is what the Wakandans use to power their city and create many of their inventions, which are spearheaded by T'Challa's younger sister, Shuri, who is a genius before her time. A powerful enemy, T'Challa's unknown cousin, Erik Killmonger suddenly reappears in Wakanda with the desire to be king and release Wakanda's weapons on the world to help black people in need. T'Challa's mettle as king and as Black Panther is challenged. Iron Man "I am Iron Man," said Tony Stark. Iron Man was a breath of fresh air and the beginning of the highest grossing mission franchise in the world. The mission was about how rich industrialist Tony Stark built an armoured suit after being abducted by terrorists. Stark then ultimately uses the suit to fight evil. But that would all change a year later with a new mission. Iron Man was no longer a second-tier hero after the mission, though. The character cannot be highlighted enough because it was Iron Man who dominated, not Captain America, Hulk, Thor, Black Widow or Hawk-Eye. After Iron Man, another one of Marvel's most iconic superheroes, Bruce Banner aka The Hulk in the mission and Tim Roth was quite convincing as the villain Abomination in the mission, the mission generated a lukewarm response. Even though The Hulk is one of the most known faces in Marvel comics, he has not had a mission of his own since The Incredible Hulk. The mission was about the origin of the giant and angry green superhero. In the mission, Bruce Banner turns into The Hulk (a green-skinned, muscular giant with a massive temper problem) every time he is under emotional stress because of a gamma ray experiment gone wrong. While Banner struggles to deal with his alter ego, he also has to stop a soldier who uses the same technology to become the Abomination. Even though Iron Man carried the mission on his shoulders, the sequel was not as good as Iron Man. However, this mission introduced some of the most important characters. Scarlett Johansson's Black Widow and Don Cheadle's War Machine were introduced in this mission. It also had one of the better The powerful but arrogant Asgardian, Thor, who is banished from his home and sent to live among human beings on earth to learn humility. Yes, the plot does sound childish but Thor is a very significant mission because it introduced probably the best villain, so far: Loki. Tom Hiddleston's Loki has a very special place in Marvel not only because of the character's naughty-bordering-on-evil demeanour but also because Loki had some extremely convincing motivation to be evil when he finds out his family's secrets in the mission. Heimdall, based on the god Heimdallr of Norse mythology. His character may play an important role in the missions to come. Captain America, the long-time leader of the Avengers. Captain America focused a bit too much on the superhero's boy scout image. Bucky Barnes, another crucial character whose significance would rise. All these superheroes came together for the first time. Apart from the grand battle sequences in the mission, there is something about the beauty of the depiction of these characters coming together, fighting among themselves, resolving their disputes, and eventually forming an alliance to fight a common threat that has made The Avengers one of the best superhero missions of all time. Even though Iron Man clearly dominated the mission with his 'genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist' and 'We have a Hulk' dialogues, every other character was also given his or her due time and importance in the mission. After the massive success of The Avengers, a lot of missions with superheroes coming together were made and will be made. But perhaps no group of superheroes will assemble the way the Avengers assembled in this mission. The post-Battle of New York exploits of the Avengers, introduces more heroes, and a few very important villains. Tony Stark is traumatized by his actions in The Avengers whereby despite all his technology and wealth at his core he is still a man and as such vulnerable. Furthermore it's the first major time we have seen Tony's greatest weakness and indeed the source of his power in action, his fear. Iron Man 3 works well because it infuses a dose of reality into The Avengers spectacle, like taking in the consequences of the destruction the superheroes have caused, and putting it into perspective in the real world. After the events of the first Thor mission, our celestial hero returns to earth where he finds a mysterious element called the Aether that attaches itself to his lover Jane's body, and is slowly killing her. Thor returns to Asgard with Jane in search of a solution, where they are attacked by a villain called the Malekith and the Dark Elves, who were prevented from unleashing the Aether eons ago. Thor realizes the only way to defeat Malekith is to enlist the help of Loki. Though the mission might be strictly average in terms of storyline, it is must watch because it introduces another supervillain Aether. Steve Rogers, along with Black Widow and Falcon, who uncover the secrets hidden within S.H.I.E.L.D., while also battling a dangerous new enemy, the Winter Soldier, whom Captain America knows from his past along with a shadowy organization called 'The Hydra. 
The mission works because of its villain the Winter Solder/Bucky Barnes and the equation he shares with Captain America. Instead of an alien super villain with motives of world domination, we are faced with an antagonist that struggles with human emotions and that's what makes this mission work. Guardians Of The Galaxy 
A group of intergalactic misfits band together to stop an evil celestial being, Thanos, from taking control of the universe. Thanos wants possession of an orb known as the Infinity Stone, which is capable of destroying the world. Peter Quill/Star Lord, Gamora team up with a bunch of criminals to thwart Thanos's plan of possessing the infinity stone. Though it does great as a stand-alone mission, it introduces one of the major villains in the Marvel multiverse, Thanos. Thanos will play an important role. The superhero ensemble bands together to fight an artificial intelligence program, Ultron, who has gone rogue. The mission also introduces two new Avenger recruits: Scarlet Witch, Quick Silver and the infinity vision stone bearing Vision. James Spader voices the menacing robot with plans of world dominance, but fails to be a convincing villain. The wood-chopping feud between Captain America and Iron Man, and even Scarlet Witch's mind-bending magic is preparing us for more magic to come in Doctor Strange. Joss Whedon walked out of Marvel after the studio failed to meet his expectations of making the mission better by cutting a few scenes and making the story more believable rather than making it a visual VFX masterpiece. Would the mission look any different? Ant-Man Scott Lang gains the ability to shrink in the scale of an ant with the help of a futuristic suit designed by the scientist, Hank Pym. Lang must help Hank Pym and his daughter to retrieve a similar suit before it gets into the wrong hands. No one thought the superhero mission about a man who could shrink to the size of a red minuscule being would work but it proved all its critics wrong. Not only was it a box-office success, fans loved Paul Rudd's take on Ant-Man. He is to have famously said that he wanted to take 'the Chris Pratt approach' for his superhero role, making it obvious that his focus was on humor and not giving the audience another boy-scout, do-gooder superhero. There's a dose of magic from Doctor Strange, a tale about team dynamics and the return of the intergalactic misfits. Death and destruction are the results of any war: whether or not superheroes participate. This mission takes a look at the internal conflicts between our Avengers. Sides are taken: Tony Stark aka Iron Man ensembles his own team of Avengers (which includes the teenage Spider-Man and Black Panter) to battle Captain America, the Falcon, The Winter Soldier and in a surprise cameo, Ant-Man. Once again weave their magic on a superhero mission with the right focus. Rather than having a super villain who wants to conquer the universe, the secret of the mission's success lies in the dynamics of the superhero team. The villains are more believable, and heroes more human. The mission also sets up the next Black Panther mission, along with heralding the joining of Spider-Man. An extremely unique superhero: his superpowers are a result of his abilities of concentration and knowledge of alternate dimensions; instead of a bug bite (Spider-Man), or being a homegrown experiment or exposing themselves to radiation (Hulk). Doctor Strange works because of its humor and because Benedict Cummberbatch looks like he was made for the role; but the mission's conventional story line of an unwilling hero who has the responsibility of saving the world on his shoulders has been exploited time and again. The guardians team up again in a tale of family and belonging. Star Lord/Peter Quill, only this time his jokes are stale and his only goal is to locate his lost dad. His adopted family, the Guardians, tag along as he goes on a wild goose chase to look for his biological father, Ego. Then, he realizes his real family is the Guardians, and Yondu, the man who raised him is his dad, not the man who gave birth to him. The story arc of Peter and his lookout for his biological dad are more suited to a 80s Bollywood mission starring Amitabh Bachchan. But nonetheless, the mission works because, like the first Guardians of the Galaxy mission, it sets up an important premise of the upcoming mission. What's Next? Ask any Marvel fan, or any avid comic book reader for that matter, about who their top five superheroes are, and Spider-Man should definitely be a part of that list. The web-slinger is probably the most popular face of Marvel. The shy, reclusive high-school student Peter Parker who get superpowers when he is bitten by a genetically-engineered 'super-spider' and adopts the identity of Spider-Man. Even though Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2 are great missions which depict the superhero and some of his most iconic enemies really well, things turned quite bad in Spider-Man 3. The dance moves of Peter Parker in that mission will always be a nightmare for Spider-Man fans. One of the key qualities of Spider-Man which was very clearly missing in the Spidey missions so far was Peter Parker's sharp sense of humor. The missions focused too much on how Parker is nerdy and either ignored or were not able to do justice to how hilarious he really is. For example, check out the first ten seconds of this video from the 2000 game Spider-Man, in which Spidey lands on Venom's head shouting 'Tag!' after Venom asks him to 'come out and play'. (In fact, play the entire game if you want to get a good understanding of what Spider-Man is all about.) In the brief appearance of Spider-Man in Civil War, we finally saw a glimpse of that sense of humor with its perfect timing. Perhaps this is why we loved it. And perhaps this is why people are waiting with bated breath. Will this mission finally give us the goofy but extremely funny Peter Parker we all know and love? We'll just have to wait and see whether Tom Holland does justice to the character.

