Peter Gibbons is a software engineer cubicle dweller at Initech. Peter has a frustrating commute, tiresome coworkers, an inane boss and a girlfriend that he's pretty sure is cheating on him. The only bright spots in his life are his two friends at work, Samir, and the unfortunately named Michael Bolton, his laid-back construction worker neighbor Lawrence, and Joanna, a waitress at the local Chotchkie's restaurant whom he worships from afar.

After enduring a morning at work consisting of repetitive reprimands about the minutia of TPS reports, the bleak office atmosphere takes a tense turn when the employees are informed that Initech is bringing in consultants to help improve efficiency. All the Initechers are nervous about interviewing for their own jobs, but Milton, a twitchy, mumbling long-time employee, is only concerned that he will either be asked to move his desk once again, or that someone will notice he's kept his beloved red Swingline stapler after the company had switched to another brand. Michael Bolton threatens to unleash the virus he's been working on, or join Samir in trashing the horrible fax machine they're forced to deal with.

On Friday Peter attempts to sneak out early, but is caught by his arrogant boss, Bill Lumbergh, and as feared is requested to work over the weekend. Peter finally leaves the office and reluctantly joins his girlfriend, Anne, at an appointment with an occupational hypnotherapist that she's hoping can help him have a more positive outlook on life. The hypnotherapist does indeed get Peter into a very relaxed state, but suffers a fatal heart attack before he can bring him out. The next morning, Peter ignores his alarm clock, blowing off working on Saturday and Sunday as requested. He also manages to sleep through the 17 messages left for him by Lumbergh. He takes an angry call from Anne, who's demanding an explanation for his odd behavior. Peter responds by hanging up on her, and Anne responds by breaking up with him and confirming that yes she WAS cheating on him. Peter returns to bed for the remainder of the day.

On Monday, instead of going to work, Peter goes to Chotchkie's and finally asks Joanna out for lunch. They get to know each other and he tells her of his plan to not quit, but just stop going to work. They also discover a mutual appreciation for the TV series Kung Fu, and a date is made to watch it later at Peter's apartment. Peter then heads over to the Initech office to retrieve his address book, and runs into Michael Bolton who advises him to go home instead of keeping his interview appointment with the efficiency experts, both of whom happen to be named Bob. Peter decides this is the opportunity he's been waiting for, and meets with the Bobs. He tells them in no uncertain terms about his lack of motivation and his frustration of having to answer to seven levels of management. He leaves the meeting feeling unburdened, wishes them all well, and the Bobs are duly impressed.

Meanwhile, Joanna has her own version of Lumbergh to deal with, her boss at Chotchkie's, Stan. He conveys his disappointment about her wearing the minimum amount of "flair" on her work uniform. He lectures that while the "flair" is her opportunity to express herself, she seems satisfied in only wearing the minimum 15 pieces. Joanna, perplexed, assures him she will do more to express herself.

The reorganization at Initech is progressing. The Bobs are meeting with upper management, and inform Lumbergh of several employees who will be let go. They also point out that they discovered an irregularity. Milton had actually been laid off five years prior, but through a glitch in payroll continued to receive a paycheck. The Bobs report that they fixed the glitch, and that Milton will no longer be paid and will eventually leave of his own accord. When they bring up the subject of promoting Peter, Lumbergh disagrees with them, but they vehemently push back, and start quizzing Lumbergh on how much time he's spending on those TPS reports.

Peter spends the next several days hanging with Joanna and fishing with Lawrence. He shows up back at Initech at the request of the Bobs to find out that not only is he getting a promotion, with people reporting to him, a raise and stock options, but that among others both Samir and Michael Bolton are being fired. He meets with his friends that night and asks Michael Bolton if the virus he's always talking about will really work. Michael explains that the virus will take the fractions of a penny that remain on every bank transaction and deposit them into an account. The theft will be so gradual that it will take years before it's even noticed. The three friends agree that it's a foolproof scam, and decide to put it in motion the following day before Samir and Michael are let go for good. They also agree not to tell anyone else, even though Lawrence has heard all the details of the plan through the apartment wall. Peter assures Samir and Michael that Lawrence is "cool."

The plan to upload the virus is executed with overly elaborate complexity and the friends declare, "That was easy." After Michael Bolton and Samir are escorted out by security, Peter takes them to a nearby field to give them a going-away present: the fax machine that's been the bane of their existence. Michael and Samir take out their frustrations on the machine, totally demolishing it with their feet, a baseball bat and even Michael's bare hands. The day ends badly for Milton as well, when he's asked to move his desk into Storage Unit 2, and Lumbergh confiscates his red Swingline stapler.

That weekend, on their way to a party being thrown by a recently laid-off Initech coworker, Peter reveals the penny-pinching software scam to Joanna. Despite his best efforts, he fails to convince her that what he, Samir and Michael are doing isn't stealing. Once at the party, Peter finds out to his horror that Joanna once slept with Lumbergh. He confronts her with this information on the way home from the party, they argue, and she gets let out of the car saying her previous history is not his to judge, that it was two years ago and proclaims that he needs grow up. Peter then suffers a horrible nightmare in which he envisions Lumbergh having sex with Joanna.

Joanna's run of confrontations continue. Her boss, Stan, again reprimands her for not using her "flair' to express herself. Joanna decides she's finally had enough, expresses herself by flipping him the bird, and gets fired from her job.

The next morning Peter checks the balance in the illicit penny-pinching scam account and finds it is a shocking $305,326.13! The three friends meet, and Michael chalks the glitch up to a decimal place error. Meanwhile, at Initech, the poor treatment continues with Milton. After he is denied a piece of office birthday cake, this being the second time, the last straw comes in the form of a request to please go ahead and take care of the cockroach problem in Storage Unit 2, an action that Milton points out as not being in his job description, and the the lights get turned out on him. He mumbles that perhaps he'll burn down the building. Peter, Samir and Michael have been mulling over their problem of too much stolen money all day, and determine that they are simply not good criminals. The trio are afraid of going to prison and being sexually assaulted. Before they adjourn for the night, Peter learns from Michael and Samir that they were also aware that Joanna did sleep with a former employee named Lumbergh who was transferred but it wasn't their boss. After Michael and Samir leave, Peter knows what he must do: he decides to return the money to Initech along with a note taking responsibility for the whole thing. First, Peter meets Joanna outside of the new restaurant she's working for and informs her that he may be going to jail for a while since he's planning to take the blame for the embezzlement scam. He asks for her forgiveness and says that though he might never find a job he likes, he thinks he could be happy in his life if he's with her. She forgives him immediately.

Peter sneaks into Initech after hours and slips the envelope containing his confession letter and the $300 thousand in traveler's checks under Lumbergh's office door. The next morning, Milton harangues Lumbergh's secretary about not being paid and then lets himself into Lumbergh's empty office in an effort to retrieve his red stapler. Back at his apartment, Peter bids farewell to his neighbor Lawrence and heads off to hit the road. On his way out, he passes the Initech building ... which is completely engulfed in flames. As the building collapses, we see Milton wandering away from the crowd, mumbling about his stapler.

Later, we see Peter has joined Lawrence's construction crew and is working on the clean-up of the Initech fire. Peter runs across the charred red stapler and scoops it up -- he knows there's someone who's would like it. Michael and Samir come by to visit on their lunch break from their new jobs at Innertrobe, or Penetrobe as Peter calls it. The friends conclude that the fire likely consumed the confession letter and all the money, and decide they're in the clear but it's too bad all the money was lost. Peter soaks in the simple pleasure of working outside and making an honest living.

Next we see Milton at a beautiful Mexican resort and the mystery of what happened to the money is solved. When he's given the wrong drink order, he first threatens to take his business and traveler's checks to a competing resort ... then to burn the resort down.

The narrator explains that natural selection is indifferent to intelligence, so that in a society in which intelligence is consistently debased, stupid, irresponsible people easily out-breed the intelligent, creating, over the course of five centuries, an irremediably dim and sexually motivated dystopia. Demographic superiority favours those least likely to advance society. Consequently, the children of the educated élites are drowned in a sea of promiscuous, illiterate, proletarian peers.

In 2005, Corporal Joe Bauers, a US Army librarian graphed as the Army's "most average" soldier, and Rita, a prostitute terrified of her pimp, Upgrayedd (pronounced: upgrade, two Ds for "a double-dose of this pimping"), are guinea pigs in a secret, year-long, military hibernation project. They are sealed in their hibernation chambers, to be awakened a year later, but the experiment is forgotten when the officer in charge, Lieutenant Colonel Collins, is arrested for having started his own prostitution ring under the tutelage of Upgrayedd. The military base is demolished, and a Fuddruckers (eventually devolving into Buttfuckers) is built on the site.

Five hundred years in the future, their hibernation chambers are jarred open in the 'Great Garbage Avalanche of 2505', reviving both of them. Joe crashes into the house of Frito Pendejo, a typical, idiot citizen of the American future, whose dwelling is full of junk food with a prominent, giant television screen that is covered with adverts. His name, Frito Pendejo, is a haphazard combination of a product mascot (Frito Bandito) and the Spanish slang word insult.

Frito is watching Ow! My Balls!, a popular TV program that lives up to it's name with very little artistic effort. Joe is disoriented and unable to exercise the discretion necessary to allow Frito to watch his program. Consequently, Joe is thrown out the window his capsule just broke. Joe stumbles into a hospital, where slacker Dr. Lexus, MD, diagnoses him as simply "'tarded" and "fucked up". Dr. Lexus panics on discovering that Joe has no barcode-tattoo on his left wrist, and so cannot be scanned for automatic debit payment. Having noticed that the date of a magazine he finds on the doctor's desk (Hot Naked Chicks and World Report, 3 March 2505) has the same date indicated on his bill, Joe finally grasps that 500 years have passed since the Army put him in stasis. He is alarmed by the sights of the collapsing world (decaying buildings cabled to each other, mountains of garbage, a freeway that ends in a drop off, etc.) and flees the hospital, only to be arrested at a Carl's Jr. junk food vending booth for not paying his hospital bill and for not having a barcode tattoo.

At trial, Joe's public defense lawyer ("Attornee at Law") is Frito Pendejo, Esq., who stupidly helps convict him, citing the prosecutor's insistence that Joe is guilty and his own anger at Joe for damaging his house (in the garbage avalanche). Joe is imprisoned; a poorly-designed I.D.-tattoo machine re-names Joe as "Not Sure" (because he is not sure about his name as it appears on some form) and barcode-tattoos him as such. During a mandatory (and very simple) I.Q. test, Joe grasps just how stupid humanity has become. Easily escaping his dim jailors, Joe returns to Frito's apartment, asking him if a time machine exists to help him return to the past, to 2005. Frito claims there is one, but agrees to help only after Joe promises him billions of dollars from a savings account that Joe will open in the past upon his return. Frito is unable to understand the concept of compound interest, but takes Joe's word for it that Frito will earn 30 billion dollars minus the 20 billion dollars for expenses making 80 billion dollars.

En route to the time machine, Joe and Frito find Rita. She does not know that she's been asleep for 500 years until Joe tells her, and even then, she expects Upgrayedd will find her. Frito leads them to a city-sized Costco, where Joe is re-arrested when he accidentally allows his barcode to be scanned; instead of prison, Joe is delivered to the White House. President Dwayne Elizondo Mountain Dew Herbert Camacho has seen Joe's I.Q. test (scoring him as the most intelligent man in the world) and recruits him as Secretary of the Interior to correct the United States' food and crop shortages, dust bowl, crippled economy, mountains of garbage, and related matters. The other cabinet members are lampoons of contemporary politicians' nepotism, corporate loyalty corruption, and over-emphasis on sex appeal in political media coverage.

Joe learns that water has been replaced with Brawndo: The Thirst Mutilator (which Joe likens to Gatorade) a drink advertised as "rich in electrolytes", for virtually every purpose, including crop irrigation. The Brawndo Corporation, in an effort to boost their own sales, had, in the past, started a campaign claiming that water was only good for use in toilets. Over time, the electrolytes in Brawndo accumulated in the soil, killed the crops, and caused the food shortage. After giving up on explaining to the cabinet that electrolytes are not conducive to plant-life, Joe reintroduces the practice of watering crops. However, overnight, the Brawndo Corporation's stock becomes worthless, causing great unemployment without visibly improving the crop situation. The angry populace riot, Joe is made the scapegoat, and is sentenced to a day of "rehabilitation"; an execution disguised as a public demolition derby, billed as "Monday Night Rehabilitation". Meanwhile, Rita discovers that the soil has made crops sprout in the fields. To save Joe, with Frito in tow, she bribes a television cameraman to show the sprouting crops to the world. Before reaching the crop field, Frito and the cameraman are distracted by a sale at a Starbucks chain brothel franchise; only after they quarrel and fight does Frito remember his duty and film the crop sprouts. President Camacho sees the thriving new plants on the stadium's big-screen televisions, and grants Joe a pardon just as he is about to be incinerated with a flamethrower.

At the celebration, Joe decides to stay and help repair American civilization; President Camacho names him Vice President of America. He also learns that the "Time Masheen" is just an amusement park ride, with a historical theme, wherein Charlie Chaplin was leader of the Nazi party who used dinosaurs to wage war on the world, and the U.N. "Un-Nazied the world forever". Joe serves a short term as Vice President, then is elected as Camacho's successor. Joe and Rita marry and have the world's three smartest children, while Frito Pendejo takes eight wives and fathers thirty-two of the world's stupidest children, echoing the introduction to the film.


Cindy is at a guitar store trying to find a guitar for her dad. The two employees are completely engrossed by her and ignore other customers. She doesn't seem to know a lot about guitars so they try to impress her by acting like guitar experts. She asks for a different color and they both go back to get it, leaving her alone with a guitar. She looks around then takes the guitar and drives off.

Next we see a building with the name Reynold's Extract on the front. Inside, machines are going and Joel, the manager, enters and greets his employees. He goes into his office and talks on the phone with his friend Dean about going to the bar where he works. We also find out that Joel hasnt been laid in a month.

Step is talking to a Latino worker Hector, who doesn't seem to understand English, telling him that he started off in the same position but was much better. He says that he's the best worker in the factory and he's probably going to be a floor manager soon. Two women, Mary and Gabriella, see him talking and not working and complain that he's holding up the assembly line. Another worker, Rory, comes over to Hector and tells him he should listen to his band 'God's Cock' play at a show. The women watch all of this, and Mary says that she's just going to sit there and not work either. Gabriella asks if she's going to shut off the machine and Mary says she's not going to hold up the line, but if they're not going to do their jobs she's not going to do hers.

Joel is still on the phone and explains to Dean that if he's not home by 8:00 his wife puts on sweatpants, and once the sweats are on, he doesn't have a chance. He looks out his window and sees that Mary is just sitting there letting the bottles drop on the floor. Step goes up to Mary and asks what she's doing and she argues that he's not doing his job either. Joel comes down and tries to calm everyone down. He explains to Mary that Hector's new so itll take him some time to learn things and tells Step that if he wants to be a floor manager, he's going to have to learn to deal with upset workers instead of yelling. Joel walks away and Mary complains that they always get the blame.

Joel is in his office talking to another manager Brian, who spent all morning teaching Rory whom he calls Boy Genius how to back up a forklift. We see Rory driving a forklift carrying a bunch of boxes of extract when he stops suddenly causing a bunch of the boxes to fall. He then talks about Dinkus who "axed" for days off. He told her she can have personal days when she fills out her time sheets correctly, which he promises Joel will never happen. Joel rushes out to beat the 8:00 sex deadline.

He drives into a gated community and the clock in his car turns to 7:54. He sees his neighbor Nathan, and doesn't want to be seen. However Nathan notices him and waves him down. Joel stops the car and tells Nathan that he's in a hurry. However Nathan doesn't seem to register that and asks what Joel's doing on November 17. Joel lies and tells him that they'll be out of town but Nathan then 'remembers' that he meant the 7th so Joel reluctantly admits that he will definitely be in town then. Nathan says that he and his wife are going to an annual dinner for charity and want to invite Joel and his wife, Suzie. Joel tries to make up another excuse and says it doesn't sound like something that they would want to do because Suzie doesn't like going to those types of things. Nathan comes up with the idea to buy them tickets anyway and Leslie and Joel can try to talk Suzie into going. As soon as Nathan gets up from leaning on Joel's car, Joel speeds off. Joel gets into his garage and out of his car when Nathan comes walking into the garage and tells him that the tickets are $40, but the food is fantastic. Joel really wants to get inside his house and tells Nathan that they'll talk about it later. Nathan won't relent and asks why Joel is going out of town and Joel says it's for vacation. Nathan says that he and Leslie would love to go on vacation with Joel and Suzie. Joel says he has to go and starts closing the garage door shutting Nathan out and runs into the house. Nathan starts to walk away but turns around and calls for Joel bending down as the garage door closes.

Joel is finally in his house just as his wife enters the living room tying the drawstring on her sweatpants. They talk about how Nathan and Leslie won't shut up. Suzie says she's afraid to go out onto the front yard because Nathan might be there. She reminisces about the time when they lived in a condo and they could go straight from the garage to the house without having to talk to anyone. She continues talking about how they need to hire a new pool cleaner because the one they have never checks the chlorine level. She turns around and sees Joel texting. Joel apologizes and explains that a supplier has a new vanilla extract formula, which would mean Reynold's cookies and cream formula could work. He needs to get it before Weber, their competitor, so that he could be successful enough to sell the company. Joel sits down next to Suzie on the couch and cuddles up to her asking her if she remembers the logo she designed for him for the cookies and cream extract and tells her he has it framed in his office. She says she remembers and now she designs coupons. We see her handiwork on a computer. He asks if she wants to go up to the bedroom and tries to kiss her but she says shes tired and it's the middle of the week. He says it's not the middle of the week, it's Monday. Suddenly she yells Shit! and Joel is confused and asks what's wrong. She forgot Dancing with the Stars was on and turns on the TV.

Joel is at the bar where Dean works. He's telling Dean that he wants to put insulation in his bathroom because he doesn't like being heard while he jerks off. Dean tells him he should just do it anywhere he wants because he's the man of the house and how he went from being a bartender to having his own business. Joel says that no one cares about extracts, especially not his wife and that Rory probably gets laid more than he does because he's in a band. Dean tells him that Rory also probably lives in a crappy apartment and Joel says he'd gladly live in a crappy apartment if the bathroom was next to a TV so he couldn't be heard jerking off.

Cindy is at a pawn shop trying to sell the guitar she stole. She fakes crying and tells the worker that it belonged to her dead father who left her with a bunch of bills. The worker tells her that she could get a lot more money for the guitar if she goes to the music store. She says she just wants to get it over with and the worker feels bad for her and pulls money from his own pocket and gives it to her.

At the factory, Joel is looking out the window of his office when Brian walks in. Mary is sitting at her station not doing her job again and Joel asks if they're ever going to replace her with a robot. Brian says that they might not have to because General Mills wants to buy them out and made an offer over market value. Joel is really happy to hear this and tells Brian to answer them with a definite yes.

On the assembly line Mary sees a bunch of workers just standing around and talking and she decides to just sit at her station and not work. The products get backed up on the assembly belt and they keep piling up until some of the products fall off the belt onto the floor. Joel sees this from his office window. The following is in slow motion: A worker carrying boxes of extract doesnt see the spill and slips on it. Rory is driving the forklift with several boxes of extract and swerves so he won't hit the guy who slipped. A block of boxes of extract falls from the forklift and lands on a machine and breaks it. A piece of the machine flies off and hits Step in the groin. Mary shakes her head.

An emergency medical helicopter is in front of the factory and Step is wheeled out on a gurney. Mary says that's what happens when you don't pay attention.

Joel is on the phone at Sidelines getting an update on Step. He tells Dean that Step definitely lost one his testicles and they might be able to reattach the other one. Joel doesn't understand how this happened because they have such a flawless safety record and comply with all the safety codes. Dean asks if Joel has insurance and Joel says he does and that he'll probably get a huge settlement. They then go on to talk about how fragile their balls are, just hanging there in a sack one moment and then cut off forever the next. Joel tells Dean that he and Suzie have sex maybe once every three months. Dean says he has a solution for Joel's sexual frustration Xanax. Joel says Xanax is for anxiety, but Dean says it's good for all psychological problems because it makes you feel good. Dean says he takes it for head colds. Joel declines his offer to get him some. Dean also suggests codeine cough syrup.

Cindy is in her car looking through her various drivers' licenses. She sees on a newspaper a picture of Step on a gurney and reads the article, which says something about a large settlement of a million dollars. She goes to a pay phone and asks the operator for Step's address; however the address is unlisted.

Joel and Brian are in the office and Brian is telling Joel that the guys from General Mills heard about the accident and are worried because if the bill is more than the insurance settlement, it could be a serious liability. Joel asks how Step is doing and Brian says he's better and that he's not going to sue the company.

Brian tells Joel that Dinkus asked for a raise. Joel tells Brian that he calls everybody Dinkus so he doesn't know who he's talking about. Brian says he's talking about forklift "Dinkus" and Joel says that's "Boy Genius". Brian says that he told "Boy Genius" that he almost killed "Dinkus". Joel says that Brian should learn the employees' names. Brian says that if the deal goes through he won't have to.

Brian introduces Joel to the new temps, Cindy and Victor. Joel shakes their hands and goes back in his office. Brian takes Victor down to the floor, but Cindy sneaks off and follows Joel. She acts really impressed that he's the owner and founder of the company. He takes the bait and starts telling her how he got the company started. When he was younger, his mother would make root beer cookies and he noticed that the cookie dough tasted better than the cookies themselves. He discovered that a lot of the flavor in root beer extract evaporates when cooked. In college, he found a synthetic flavor that didn't evaporate as easily and made his company based on that. Cindy looks really interested in his story and nods her head while he talks. When he finishes she says that he must be really rich; to which he replies he has a 7 series BMW. She begins to look through his Rolodex and says that he knows a lot of people. She comes upon Step's card with his address. She laughs and says it's cute how his 6 looks like 8 or the other way around, trying to figure out what Step's address is.

Before he can answer, Dean walks in asking if Joel wants to hit some golf balls. He sees Cindy and introduces himself and she leaves. Dean goes to the window to look at Cindy as she goes down the stairs to the work floor. Joel explains that she was sent over from Job One, a hiring agency. Dean says he needs to give them a call because he hasn't seen anyone nearly that hot working at Reynold's Extract. Joel says that hot girls need jobs too, and Dean says most temps look like winos or guys. Joel tells Dean that he thinks she was flirting with him. Dean says of course because he's the king and the ruler of the company so he can have anyone he wants down on the floor. Joel looks out his window just as something is happening on the floor.

Mary is stomping around and yelling that someone stole her purse. She accuses Hector and Brian comes over and tells her to calm down. She says she's going to call the police. Brian says he speaks the language and will talk to him. He asks Hector if he knows where her purso is. Joel comes over and asks how Mary knows her purse was stolen. She says because it's gone out of the locker room and Joel asks what it looks like. She describes it and we see Cindy going through that purse in her car. She opens the wallet and takes out all the cash. She also has Step's address that she pulled from the Rolodex.

Cindy pulls up to the address on the card and sees Step limping out of the house and getting into his truck. She follows him to the market and gets behind him in line with a bottle of extract. He tells her she can go in front of him if that's all she has. She mentions she works at Reynold's Extract and he says he works there too. He tells her he was the fastest sorter there and that he was going to be a floor manager. She introduces herself and they begin an acquaintance.

Joel walks into his house to see Suzie asleep on the couch. He goes to Sideline and tells Dean that he and Suzie have turned into one of those brother-sister couples. He says he can't get Cindy out of his mind and when is he ever going to meet a girl that pretty who's into food flavoring? He tells Dean that she practically asked him out, giving her number to him and asking if he wanted to go see Rory play. Dean asks what Joel's going to do and Joel says nothing because he can't cheat on Suzie. Dean suggests if Suzie cheated on Joel, then Joel could cheat on Suzie with a clear conscience. He says to Joel that he should hire a gigolo to have an affair with Suzie. He knows a regular named Brad who is a gigolo. Joel jokingly says that maybe he'll try some Xanax, and Dean pulls out a box full of different pills and Joel gives it back saying it was a joke. Dean pushes it toward him and Joel finally takes it to shut Dean up, and then asks what the pill is supposed to do.

Cindy and Step are sitting in the back of his pick up truck talking about his accident. She tries to convince him to sue so that it will never happen to another worker again and that she already got him a lawyer Joe Adler from the picture from a bus stop bench. Step kisses Cindy and she is disgusted but fakes being aroused and reminds him that he can't get aroused until he heals and after the trial.

Back at the bar, Dean realizes that he either gave Joel Ritalin or Special K which is an elephant tranquilizer and not Xanax. Joel is very very relaxed and brings up the gigolo. He asks if it's morally wrong and Dean says no because she has a choice. If she doesn't do anything then that's that, but if she does then she's the one that's morally wrong and he has a free pass. He says that Brad can pretend to be the new pool cleaner and see what happens. Joel says that they need a new pool cleaner and Dean says that it's a sign and goes to call Brad.

Joel, Dean and Brad are in the back room negotiating Brad's fee. Dean wants 10% of Brad's fee because he set up the whole thing. Brad asks if Joel is going to watch and Joel says that he's not even going to be there and that they already went over this. Dean explains again slowly that Brad is going to go there pretending to be the new pool cleaner and attempt to seduce Joel's wife and if it doesn't work, he will just clean the pool and leave. Brad asks if Joel will try to touch his butt and Dean explains the situation again. Brad finally gets it and is excited but doesn't pay attention to Joel when he says that Suzie might not go for it. Brad asks if Joel can spread the word about him to other lonely housewives so he can quit his landscaping job that he hates because he loves getting laid. The three leave the bar and Brad is still talking about how much he likes getting laid. Dean shakes his hand and leaves with Joel in another direction. Dean offers to drive Joel home because he's drunk and stoned. Joel asks if he's sure about Brad because he's kind of stupid and Dean says what can you expect from a whore.

At work the next day, Joel is in the break room taking Alka Seltzer when Cindy walks in. She says he must have had one of those nights and asks where was she while he was having fun. Joel suddenly realizes what he's done and rushes away to call Dean to stop Brad. He's pretty upset and Dean tries to calm him down. Dean sees that he doesn't actually have Brad's number on his phone and that the guy who gave him the number doesn't have a phone and that he got it from the guy at the bar. Joel asks for Brad's last name, but Dean only remembers that it was a Mexican name. Joel says Brad had blond hair and blue eyes, why would he have a Mexican last name? Dean says he thought it was strange too but he doesn't judge but he thinks it might have been Lopez or Sanchez or Gutierrez. Joel decides to go home and stop Brad himself. As he's walking out Brian walks in and says he needs to talk to him about Step, but Joel says not now and leaves. As he's walking down the stairs, his assistant yells that a Brad Chavez is on the phone. Joel turns around and gets the phone.

In his office he picks up the phone and Brad says that Suzie totally went for it. Joel says Brad wasn't even supposed to be there for another 45 minutes. Brad says he had forgotten what time they said and he was so excited that he just went there and says how easy it was. Joel says he wants to hear everything. Brad says he was in the back pretending to clean the pool and Suzie was sunbathing. He strikes up a conversation with her asking if this was her dad's place because she looked so young to be owning a house that nice. She giggled and played with her hair. He asked her for some sunscreen and explains that asking for sunscreen was pretty smart because then she would ask him to rub some on her too. Brad continues rubbing sunscreen on her back and he says once he started doing that the rest was pretty easy. Joel stops him and Brad asks him to refer him to other people or he's available to do his wife again. Joel hangs up on him.

Joel drives home and Nathan chases him down. Joel says hes really busy and Nathan says he won't take long. He says he bought the tickets for the dinner and that they ended up being $55 each. Joel tells him that he said they didn't want to go and Nathan says Suzie wont be uncomfortable at all. Joel says that that's not the problem and drives off.

At the dinner table, Joel is eating angrily. Suzie says that they should go on vacation to the Caribbean, to which Joel replies that he hates the Caribbean because it sucks. He says he doesn't feel good and gets up to go to bed.

At work, he sees Cindy working and they wave. Rory is telling Cindy about the five bands that he's in. Mary says Cindy's so nice and she wishes they would hire more people like her. She also heard that another wallet was stolen and that Hector was the last person in the locker room. Rory comes over to Mary and Gabriella and asks if they heard the rumor that Joel's going to sell the company. They say he's probably going to make billions. Rory gets upset because he thinks he does all the work and Joels going to get all the money. He says they should do something and walks away.

In the office, Brian comes in and says Step doesn't want to settle anymore and he might have talked to a lawyer. He also says that General Mills doesn't want to go through with the deal until the situation is settled. Joel says not to worry and that Step is probably just beating on his chest and being macho.

Joel is driving home and Nathan flags him down and Joel says he can't talk. Nathan says he noticed the new pool cleaner today and asks if he's any good. Joel says the pool cleaner came yesterday, Nathan says no..today. Joel asks him to describe him and Nathan describes Brad. Joel asks if Nathan is positive that he saw him today and Nathan says yes and Joel drives off.

Joel calls Brad and asks what he was doing at his house today. Brad says not to worry because he's not going to charge him this time. He figured since they already had sex that it was no big deal. Joel says hell pay him because he doesn't want him to have sex with his wife for free and to never to come to his house ever again. He walks into the room where his wife is and Suzie asks if he wants to do something like go to 7-11. Joel grabs his jacket and says he has to go watch Rory's band play and quickly walks out.

Joel shows up at Rory's place. A slummy looking house that has Harley motorcycles parked all over in front of it and Rory is in the back yard playing the guitar with his thrash metal band. Joel gets out of his car and sees Cindy but then gets back in his car and drives away.

Joel is watching TV at Sideline and a commercial for Joe Adler the lawyer is playing. Dean brings over a beer and asks why he's so upset since Joel said it wouldn't bother him if Suzie cheated on him. Joel says he didn't think about it long enough and he's upset that Brad didn't have to try so hard to get Suzie in bed. He complains that women say they want a guy that's smart and funny but end up just laughing at what the good looking, stupid guy says. He tells Dean that Brad was back today and that he's going to pay him. Dean tries to figure out where he's going to get his 10% from. Dean tells Joel to call Cindy and Joel says he doesn't know so Dean suggests smoking pot to relieve his stress.

They go to Dean's friend's house. Dean is rambling on and on while lighting a six foot long bong for Willie while Joel just watches. Willie lets out a breath and an extremely long stream of smoke leaves his mouth. He offers the bong to Joel who declines and asks for a beer instead. Dean tells Willie that Joel thinks he gets paranoid when he smokes. Willie yells and bullies Joel into smoking it and Joel gives in. Later on while super high, Joel stares at Willie and Dean who are sitting with their eyes closed, when Willie jumps up and screams at him to scare him and laughs. Dean tells Joel to chill out and suggests he should call Cindy. Willie asks what she looks like, and Joel says brown hair, pretty, working class type. Willie asks if that means slutty and Joel says yes. Joel dials her number and gets a busy signal. Joel makes a comment about her not having call waiting, and Willie freaks out on him saying HE doesn't have call waiting because the clicking sound it makes just makes him want to reach through the phone and kill that person. He then starts laughing and says he is just playing with him and offers to dial again for him. Willie starts dialing the number when he suddenly stops mid dial, and he tells Joel that the reason he's getting a busy signal is because he's dialing WILLIE'S number from Willie's phone. Joel thinks Willie's trying to get him paranoid again and says 'yeah right nice try', when Cindy walks through the door and calls to Willie, Hey baby. Joel stands up and Cindy sees him and asks what he is doing there. Dean excuses himself and leaves. Willie stands up and rushes at Joel...

Joel tries to sneak into his bedroom but makes a lot of noise, waking Suzie up. She turns on the light and sees Joel's bruised and bloodied face and asks what happened in a worried voice. He tells her he's fine and he just got his ass kicked by some guy at Sideline. She says he should go to the hospital and he says he just wants to go to sleep.

At work, his assistant gives him his messages and asks what happened to his face. He mumbles something about a car door and walks out. Brian walks into his office and asks if he's talked to Step. Joel replies that he's not returning his calls. Brian says that's a big problem because Step has hired Joe Adler. Brian asks about his face and Joel says he fell down some stairs. Brian says they need to hire new people because Cindy quit. Brian mentions that she's been going out with Step and Joel is shocked. Brian says he wants to fire Hector because of the stolen purse and wallet. Joel starts to put two and two together and tells Brian NOT to fire Hector for that would be a mistake and announces that he is leaving early.

Joel is driving home when he sees Brad driving out of the subdivision on the other side and he pulls up in front of Brad cutting him off. He gets out of car and yells at Brad asking what he's doing at his house. He threatens Brad by saying Brad's face will look worse than his face if he's ever at his house again. Brad says that he and Suzie are in love. Joel calls him a piece of ass and that hes going to tell Suzie that he only had sex with her for money. Brad begs him not to but Joel blows him off and speeds home.

Joel storms into the house and his wife is surprised that hes home early. He looks out at the pool from the kitchen window where she is standing and asks how the pool cleaner is. She asks what he means, and he says is he doing a good job because he's looking at the pool and it looks very dirty so he's going to fire him. Suzie asks if he's feeling all right and if he needs to see a doctor. He says he's fine and storms off.

Joel drives to Step's house and Step invites him in. Joel asks him about Cindy and Step says that they might even get married after the lawsuit. Joel warns him that he should be careful with Cindy because he is getting a lot of money and also tells Step that if he goes through with the lawsuit, the company will go bankrupt and a lot of people will lose their jobs and be mad at Step. Step gets defensive and says he doesn't care if they get mad at him for he will take them on and kick their asses and for Joel to watch what he says about his woman.

Brad is at Suzie's house trying to kiss her, but she tells him that they need to stop seeing each other. Brad confesses his love to Suzie, but Suzie says she loves Joel and she wants to make her marriage work. Brad asks does that mean they can't see each other anymore and Suzie says Duh, that's what she just said. Brad asks why? And asks if he can see her tomorrow or the following days. She says NO and tells him to leave, and he says he'll call her tomorrow.

At the factory, Joe Adler is telling his team that he should fire them because they laughed at him for buying bus bench ads and that Step is a great client. He explains that a man with no balls is not a man and the jury won't be able to empathize, but a man with one ball is still a man and his ball is hanging by a thread. Brian and Joel enter the room to meet with Step's lawyers.

Down on the floor, the workers all think that Joel and Brian are meeting with the people from General Mills. Rory gathers the factory workers and says that if they're going to cash out and leave him jobless, he should get some of the money. One of the other workers suggest going on strike until Joel and Brian gave them stocks in the company before selling to General Mills. If the workers go on strike, General Mills won't buy Reynold's Extracts so they would have to give the workers stock.

Back in the office, Adler shows them the amount it would take to settle. Joel says they don't have that kind of money. Adler suggests liquidating all his assets and Joel says he wont give up the company he built from the ground. Adler says his client gave up his testicles. He says hell drop the case if Joel slams his testicles in the door and will call it even.

On the floor, the workers are still speculating about what's going on in the office. They decide to stage a walk out.

In the office, Adler is still going on about slamming Joels balls in the door. Joel finally gets fed up and says Adler can slam his own balls in the door. Adler asks if Joel just threatened him. Brian and Joel leave the office to calm down and Joel decides to leave.

He walks down the stairs and all of his workers are gathered at the bottom of the stairs. Rory struggles to tell Joel that the workers want a piece of the General Mills buy out. Joel stops him and goes off on them telling them that they can have the whole damn company and buy a new conveyor belt and deal with the lawsuit but to be careful because Adler might slam their balls in the door and walks out. The workers all go back to work.

Joel is watching TV at home when Suzie enters and complains to him that he's been busy at work for the past two years and she's been working at home. He interrupts her and asks if she's trying to tell him that she had sex with the pool cleaner. She admits it and asks how he knew. He tells her that he hired him to have sex with her because he wanted to have an affair and not feel guilty. She gets upset and asks if Brad has been getting paid all 15 times. Joel is shocked because it hasnt even been 15 days. She then asks Joel who he had an affair with. He tells her that he didnt. They both want to leave the house, and as Joel leaves out the back door Suzie opens the front door to see Nathan standing there. She says it's not a good time and he should come by another time. He asks her when, for they are so hard to get ahold of. She says maybe tomorrow. He asks what time, and she says she not sure when a good time will be and tries to close the door on him. He asks when will they will have the check for $110 ready, as she closes the door in his face.

Joel drives to a hotel and watches TV. He walks out of the room and sees Cindy walk into another room with a bag of groceries. He goes to her room and she's surprised to see him. She invites him in and apologizes for Willie and explains that's why she had to move out. He notices Mary's bag in the room. He asks if that's Mary's bag and she says no that it's her own. She tries to change the subject by asking how people are at work. He walks over to get the bag and accuses Cindy of stealing it. She denies it and says it's her bag. He points out the teddy bear with a tutu key-chain that Mary described earlier. He then asks her what she's doing with Step. He knows that she is the reason why Step is going through with the lawsuit and explains how much work he put into building the company. He grabs the purse and tells her that if it really is her purse, she can call the police and tell them that he stole it. He's about to walk out the door when he changes his mind and decides to call them anyways to tell them that SHE stole it. He picks up the phone and she begs him not to because shes on probation and she'll go to jail for a really long time if he calls the police. She says she'll talk to Step and have him drop the lawsuit. Joel asks how he can trust her. She says he can keep the bag and if Step doesnt drop the lawsuit then he can turn her in. He asks for the other workers' wallet and watch that was stolen. She starts to cry and he tells her to stop trying to manipulate him. He's about to walk out the door but can't because he feels bad. He sits next to her and she hugs him and starts kissing him.

He wakes up in her bed and she's gone. He panics and grabs his pants off the floor and gets his wallet to find all his money is still there. He looks over at the desk and Mary's purse, the wallet and watch are there. Relieved he goes back to sleep.

At the factory, Mary comments on how Joel hasn't been at work all morning and Gabriella says if they're late, they get in trouble. Just then Joel drops Mary's purse next to her and tells her that it wasn't Hector and that it was Cindy who stole it. Mary doesn't believe him and makes a comment about blaming the sweet girl.

At Step's house, Step's brother asks if Step has heard from Cindy yet because its been three days since she borrowed his truck. Step says that she wouldn't steal from him.

At the factory, Brian tells Joel that Step is there to see him, but he wants to see him alone at the loading dock. Step tells Joel that he's tired of dealing with Adler and he just wants his old life back. He wants to go back to work and realizes that if he bankrupts the company, there won't be another job for him. Joel says he doesn't have to bankrupt the company. Step says if Joel sells the company, the new company won't want an employee with one ball, but Joel reassures him that they aren't allowed to ask that. Joel tells him that he doesn't really want to sell the place and won't have to if there's no lawsuit. Step agrees under one condition - he becomes floor manager.

Step and Joel walk into the factory and Joel gathers the workers. He tells them he decided not to sell the company and that Step is the new floor manager. He says if anyone doesn't like that, they can go work at Gem-Co, a competing company. He reminds them that at Gem-Co, the owner doesn't know the workers' names and they won't even meet him. Brian asks if he's really not selling and Joel says no so he better start learning their names.

Mary and Gabriella are on the line talking as usual when Step yells at them to stop talking and get back to work.

Joel is at Sideline and a commercial for Adler is on. Brad walks in and approaches Joel and tells him he doesn't have to worry about him and Suzie anymore because she loves Joel. Joel asks why Brad was so hung up on Suzie and that he could get anyone he wanted and that sex isn't the same as love. Brad starts to leave but turns around and asks Joel for a favor, he tells him he quit his landscaping job and that he's not cut out to be a gigolo and asks if there's a job opening at the extract plant. Joel says he's not going to give him a job and Brad starts to walk away again when Joel changes his mind and tells him to come by the office and fill out an application.

Dean walks over and says he might be to blame for the mess, and that some people like Joel aren't meant to do drugs because they make bad decisions.

At the house Suzie is cleaning the pool. Nathan walks in and asks for the check. Suzie tells him that they're not going. Nathan gets upset and says they should have told him that before he bought the tickets. She says no one agreed to go. Nathan says it sounded like they were going to go and now he bought non refundable tickets and says he wishes they had been clearer with him. Suzie decides to be clear and says if they say things like, I don't think so or I'm not sure or close the door in his face, it means NO. She also tells him that they don't like him because hes dull, he talks too much, he never listens, he's always in their yard, and calls him the worst neighbor in the world. He suddenly grabs his chest then collapses.

Nathan is in a casket at his wake. Suzie and Joel sit separately. They run into each other again at the funeral and Suzie tells him she thinks she might have killed Nathan. Joel tries to console her and finds out that both of them agreed to go to the same charity dinner that Leslie asked them about because they felt so bad. She asks Joel about the woman he wanted to have an affair with. He tells her she was a criminal drifter. He also tells her he hired Brad at the factory because he felt sorry for him. They tell one another they'll see each other at the dinner. Joel is about to walk away but turns around and asks Suzie if they should just take one car. She agrees and they talk about how it was the longest they've ever seen Nathan with his mouth shut.