In Klingon space, three Klingon battle cruisers encounter a huge cloud-like anomaly. On the bridge of one of the ships, the captain orders his crew to fire torpedoes at it, but they have no effect. The ships take evasive action. Meanwhile, in Federation space, a monitoring station, Epsilon 9, picks up a distress signal from one of the Klingon ships. As the three ships are attempting to escape the cloud, energy beams shoot out and engulf each ship one by one, and they vanish. On Epsilon 9, the crew tracks the course of the cloud and discovers that it is headed for Earth.

On Vulcan, Spock has been undergoing the kohlinahr ritual, in which he has been learning how to purge all emotions, and is nearly finished with his training. The female Vulcan Master, surrounded by two men, is about to give him an ornate necklace as a symbol of pure logic, when Spock holds out his hand to stop her. Confused, she mind melds with him and senses a consciousness calling to him from space that is affecting his human side. She drops the necklace. "You have not yet achieved kohlinahr. You must look elsewhere for your answer," she says as they leave Spock. "You will not find it here. Live long and prosper."

In San Francisco, Admiral James T. Kirk arrives at Starfleet Headquarters in a shuttlecraft. He sees Commander Sonak, a Vulcan science officer who is joining the Enterprise crew and recommended for the position by Kirk himself. Kirk is bothered as to why Sonak is not yet on board. Sonak explains that Captain Willard Decker, the new captain of the Enterprise, wanted him to complete his science briefing at Headquarters before they left on their mission. The Enterprise has been undergoing a complete refitting for the past 18 months and is now under final preparations to leave, which would take at least 20 hours, but Kirk informs him that they only have 12. He orders Sonak to report to him on the Enterprise in one hour; he has a short meeting with Admiral Nogura and is intent on being on the ship.

Kirk transports to an office complex orbiting Earth and meets Montgomery Scott, the Enterprise's chief engineer. Scotty expresses his concern about the tight departure time. The cloud is less than three days away from Earth, and the Enterprise has been ordered to intercept it because they are the only ship in range. Scotty says that the refit can't be finished in 12 hours, and tries to convince him that the ship needs more work done as well as a shakedown cruise. Kirk insists that they are leaving, ready or not. They board a travel pod and begin the journey over to the drydock in orbit that houses the Enterprise. Scotty informs Kirk that the crew hasn't had enough transition time with all the new equipment and that the engines haven't even been tested at warp power, not to mention that they have an untried captain. Kirk informs Scotty that two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made him a little stale, but that he wouldn't exactly consider himself untried. Kirk then informs a surprised Scotty that Starfleet gave him back his command of the Enterprise. Scotty doubts it, saying that he doesn't think it was that easy with Admiral Nogura, who gave Kirk his orders. They arrive at the Enterprise, and Scotty indulges Kirk with a brief tour of the new exterior of the ship.

Upon docking with the ship, Scotty is summoned to Engineering. Kirk goes up to the bridge, and is informed by Lt. Uhura that Starfleet has just transferred command from Captain Decker over to him. Kirk finds Decker in engineering, whom is visibly upset when Kirk breaks the news that he is assuming command, but recognizes it is necessary because Kirk has more experience. Decker will remain on the ship as second officer. As Decker storms off, an alarm sounds. Someone is trying to beam over to the ship, but the transporter is malfunctioning. Kirk and Scotty race to the transporter room.

Transporter operator Janice Rand is frantically trying to order Starfleet to abort the transport, but it is too late. Commander Sonak and an unknown female officer are beaming in, but their bodies are not reforming properly in the beam. The female officer screams, and then their bodies disappear. Starfleet signals to them that they have died. Kirk orders Starfleet to express his sympathies to their families. In the corridor, Kirk sees Decker and informs him they will have to replace Commander Sonak and wants another Vulcan onboard once possible. Decker informs him that no one is available that is familiar with the ship's new design. Kirk informs Decker he will have to double his duties as science officer as well. In the recreation room, as Kirk briefs the assembled crew on the mission, they receive a transmission from Epsilon 9. Commander Branch informs them they have analyzed the mysterious cloud. It generates an immense amount of energy and measures 2 AUs in diameter. There is also a vessel of some kind in the center. They have attempted to communicate with it and have performed scans, but the cloud reflects them back. It seems to think of the scans as hostile and attacks them. Like the Klingon ships earlier, Epsilon 9 disappears.

Later on the bridge, Uhura informs Kirk that the transporter is repaired and now working. Lt. Ilia,, a bald being from the planet Delta IV, arrives. Decker is happy to see her, as they developed a romantic relationship when he was assigned to her planet several years earlier. Ilia is curious about Decker's reduction in rank and Kirk interrupts and informs her about Decker being the executive and science officer. Decker informs her, with slight sarcasm, that Kirk has the utmost confidence in him. Ilia informs Kirk that her oath of celibacy is on record and asks permission to assume her duties. Uhura informs Kirk that one of the last few crew members to arrive is refusing to beam up. Kirk goes to the transporter room to ensure that he beams up. In the transporter room, Kirk orders Starfleet to beam the officer aboard on the double. Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy materializes on the platform. McCoy is angry that his Starfleet commission was reactivated and that it was Kirk's idea for him to be brought along on the mission. However, his attitude changes when Kirk says he desperately needs him. McCoy leaves to check out the new sickbay.

The crew finishes its repairs and the Enterprise leaves drydock and into the solar system. Dr. McCoy comes up to the bridge and complains that the new sickbay is nothing but a computer center. Kirk is anxious to intercept the cloud intruder, and orders Hikaru Sulu to go to warp speed. Suddenly, the ship enters a wormhole, which was created by an engine imbalance, and is about to collide with an asteroid that has been pulled inside. Kirk orders the phasers to be fired on it, but Decker orders Pavel Chekov to fire photon torpedoes instead. The asteroid is destroyed and the wormhole vanishes. Annoyed, Kirk wants to meet with Decker in his quarters. Dr. McCoy decides to go along.

Kirk demands from Decker an explanation on his phaser order countermanded. Decker pointed out that the redesigned Enterprise channeled the phasers through the main engines and because they were imbalanced, the phasers were cut off. Kirk acknowledged that he had saved the ship; however, he accuses Decker of competing with him. Decker informs Kirk that, because of his unfamiliarity with the ship's new design, the mission is in jeopardy. Decker informs Kirk that he will gladly help Kirk understand the new design. Kirk then dismisses him from the room. In the corridor, Decker runs into Ilia. Ilia asked if the confrontation was difficult, and he informs her that it was about as difficult as seeing her again, and apologizes. She asked if he was sorry for leaving Delta IV, or for not saying goodbye. He said that if he had seen her again, would she be able to say goodbye? She says no, and walked around him and entered her quarters nearby.

Back in Kirk's quarters, McCoy accuses Kirk of being the one who was competing, and the fact that it was Kirk who used the emergency to pressure Starfleet into letting him get back command of the Enterprise. McCoy thinks that Kirk is obsessed with keeping his command. On Kirk's console viewscreen, Uhura informs Kirk that a long-range shuttle is approaching and that the occupant wishes to dock. Chekov also pipes in and replies that it appears to be a courier vessel. Kirk orders Chekov to handle the situation. The Vulcan shuttle approaches the Enterprise from behind, and the top portion of it detaches and docks at an airlock behind the bridge. Chekov is waiting by the airlock doors and is surprised to see Spock come aboard. Moments later, Spock arrives on the bridge, and everyone is shocked and pleased to see him, yet Spock ignores them. He moves over to the science station and informs Kirk that he is aware of the crisis and knows about the ship's engine design difficulties. He offers to step in as the ship's science officer. McCoy and Dr. Christine Chapel come to the bridge to greet Spock, but Spock just stares alarmingly at their emotional outburst. Spock leaves to discuss fuel equations with Scotty in engineering.

With Spock's assistance, the engines are now rebalanced for full warp capacity. The ship successfully goes to warp to intercept the cloud. In the officers lounge, Spock meets with Kirk and McCoy. They discuss Spock's kohlinahr training on Vulcan, and how Spock broke off from his training to join them. Spock describes how he sensed the consciousness of the intruder, from a source more powerful that he has ever encountered, with perfect, logical thought patterns. He believes that it holds the answers he seeks. Uhura informs Kirk over the intercom that they have visual contact with the intruder. The cloud scans the ship, but Kirk orders no return scans and they might be considered hostile. Spock determines that the scans are coming from the center of the cloud. Uhura tries sending linguacode messages, but there is no response. Decker suggests raising the shields for protection, but Kirk determines that might also be considered hostile to the cloud. Spock analyzes the clouds composition, and discovers it has a 12-power energy field, the equivalent of power generated by thousands of starships.

Sitting at the science station, Spock awakens from a brief trance. He reveals to Kirk that the alien was communicating with him. The alien is puzzled; it contacted the Enterprise--why has the Enterprise not replied? A red alert sounds, and an energy beam from within the cloud emerged and charges at the Enterprise. Spock analysis the incoming alien weapon as a form of plasma energy, but lists it exact composition and guidance system as unknown. Kirk orders the Enterprise shields raises just as the energy beam hits the touches the ship's force field, and begins to overload the ship's systems. Bolts of lightning surround the warp core and nearly injure some engineering officers, and Chekov is also hurt--his hand is burned while sitting at the weapons station on the bridge. The energy beam then disappears having expanded its energy. A medical team is summoned to the bridge, and Ilia is able to use her telepathic powers to soothe Chekov's pain. Scotty then contacts the bridge from the engineering room to explain that the ship's shield power is down by over 70% from the plasma energy bolt's impact. Kirk orders some auxiliary powers to be diverted to the shields.

Spock then confirms to Kirk that the alien has been attempting to communicate. It communicates at a frequency of more than one million megahertz, and at such a high rate of speed, the message only lasts a millisecond. Spock begins to program the ship's computer to send linguacode messages at that frequency. Another energy beam is sent out, but Spock transmits a message just in time, and the beam disappears. The ship continues on course through the cloud. They pass through many expansive and colorful cloud layers and upon clearing these, a giant vessel is revealed. It is roughly cylindrical in shape, with large spikes jutting out from the surface at equidistant angles between each other, forming a hexagonal shape. Kirk orders Uhura to transmit an image of the alien to Starfleet, but she explains that any transmission sent out of the cloud is being reflected back to them. Kirk orders Sulu to fly above and along the top of the vessel at a distance of 500 meters. The Enterprise is so small compared to the size of the alien vessel that it appears only as a little white dot next to it. The ship travels past many oddly-shaped structures, including a sunken area where the energy beams originate.

An alarm sounds, and yet another energy bolt approaches the ship. It appears on the bridge as a column of bright light that emits a very loud noise. The crew struggles to shield their eyes from its brilliant glow. Chekov asks Spock if it is one of the alien's crew, and Spock replies that it is a probe sent from the vessel also made form a plasma energy combination. The probe slowly moves around the room and stops in front of the science station. Bolts of lightning shoot out from it and surround the console--it is trying to access the ship's computer. Spock manages to smash the controls to prevent further access, and the probe gives him an electric shock that sends him rolling onto the floor. The probe approaches the helm/navigation console and it scans Lt. Ilia. Suddenly, she vanishes, along with the probe.

Ahead of the ship looms another giant section of the vessel that begins to open up. A tractor beam is drawing the Enterprise toward an opening aperture. Decker calls for Chief DiFalco to come up to the bridge as Ilia's replacement. The ship travels deep into the next chamber. Decker wonders why they were brought inside--they could have been easily destroyed outside. Spock deduces that the alien is curious about them. Uhura's monitor shows that the aperture is closing; they are trapped. The ship is released from the tractor beam and suddenly, an intruder alert goes off. Someone has come aboard the ship and is in the crew quarters section.

Kirk and Spock arrive inside a crewman's quarters to discover that the intruder is inside the sonic shower. It is revealed to be Ilia, although it isn't really her--there is a small red device attached to her neck. In a mechanized voice, she replies "You are the Kirk unit--you will listen to me." She explains that she has been programmed by an entity called "V'Ger" to observe and record the normal functions of the carbon-based units infesting the Enterprise. Kirk opens the shower door and "Ilia" steps out, wearing a small white garment that just materialized around her. Dr. McCoy and a security officer enter the room, and Kirk orders McCoy to scan her with a tricorder. Kirk asks her who V'Ger is. She replies "V'Ger is that which programmed me." McCoy informs Kirk that Ilia is a mechanism and Spock confirms she is a probe that assumed Ilia's physical form. Kirk asks where the real Ilia is, and the probe states that "that unit" no longer functions. Kirk also asks why V'Ger is traveling to Earth, and the probe answers that it wishes to find the Creator, join with him, and become one with it. Spock suggests that McCoy perform a complete examination of the probe.

In sickbay, the Ilia probe lays on a diagnostic table, its sensors slowly taking readings. All normal body functions, down to the microscopic level, are exactly duplicated by the probe. Decker arrives and is stunned to see her there. She looks up at him and addresses him as "Decker", rather than "Decker unit", which intrigues Spock. Spock speaks with Kirk and Decker in an adjoining room, and Spock locks the door. Spock theorizes that the real Ilia's memories and feelings have been duplicated by the probe as well as her body. Decker is angry that the probe killed Ilia, but Kirk convinces him that their only contact with the vessel is through the probe, and they need to use that advantage to find out more about the alien. Suddenly, the probe bursts through the door, and demands that Kirk assist her with her observations. He informs her that Decker will do it with more efficiency.

Decker and Ilia are seen walking around in the recreation room. He shows her pictures of the previous ships that were named Enterprise. Decker has been trying to see if Ilia's memories or emotions can resurface, but to no avail. Kirk and McCoy are observing them covertly on a monitor from his quarters. Decker shows her a game that the crew enjoys playing. She is not interested and states that recreation and enjoyment has no meaning to her programming. At another game, which Ilia enjoyed and nearly always won, they both press one of their hands down onto a table to play it. The table lights up, indicating she won the game, and she gazes into Decker's eyes. This moment of emotion ends suddenly, and she returns to normal. She says "This device serves no purpose."

"Why does the Enterprise require the presence of carbon units?" she asks. Decker informs her the ship couldn't function without them. She informs him that more information is needed before the crew can be patterned for data storage. Horrified, he asks her what this means. She says "When my examination is complete, all carbon units will be reduced to data patterns." He informs her that within her are the memory patterns of a certain carbon unit. He convinces her to let him help her revive those patterns so that she can understand their functions better. She allows him to proceed. Spock slowly enters an airlock room. He sees an officer standing at a console, his back to Spock. Spock quietly approaches him, and gives him the Vulcan nerve pinch to render him unconscious.

Decker, the probe, Dr. McCoy and Dr. Chapel are in Ilia's quarters. Dr. Chapel gives the probe a decorative headband that Ilia used to wear. Chapel puts it over "Ilia's" head and turns her toward a mirror. Decker asks her if she remembers wearing it on Delta IV. The probe shows another moment of emotion, saying Dr. Chapel's name, and putting her hand on Decker's face, calling him Will. Behind them, McCoy reminds Decker that she is a mechanism. Decker asks "Ilia" to help them make contact with V'Ger. She says that she cannot, and Decker asks her who the Creator is. She says V'Ger does not know. The probe becomes emotionless again and removes the headband.

Spock is now outside the ship in a space suit with an attached thruster pack. He begins recording a log entry for Kirk detailing his attempt to contact the alien. He activates a panel on the suit and calculates thruster ignition and acceleration to coincide with the opening of an aperture ahead of him. He hopes to get a better view of the spacecraft interior. Kirk comes up to the bridge and Uhura informs him that Starfleet signals are growing stronger, indicating they are very close to Earth. Starfleet is monitoring the intruder and notifies Uhura that it is slowing down in its approach. Sulu confirms this and says that lunar beacons show the intruder is entering into orbit. Chekov informs Kirk that Airlock 4 has been opened and a thruster suit is missing. Kirk figures out that Spock has done it, and orders Chekov to get Spock back on the ship. He changes his mind, and instead orders him to determine his position.

Meanwhile, Spock touches a button on his thruster panel and his thruster engine ignites. He is propelled forward rapidly, and enters the next chamber of the vessel just before the aperture closes behind him. The thruster engine shuts down, and the momentum carries Spock ahead further. He disconnects the thruster pack from his suit and it falls away from him. Continuing his log entry, Spock sees an image of what he believes to be V'Ger's home planet. He passes through a tunnel filled with crackling plasma energy, possibly a power source for a gigantic imaging system. He next sees several more images of planets, moons, stars, and galaxies stored and recorded. Spock theorizes that this may be a visual representation of V'Ger's entire journey. "But who or what are we dealing with?" he ponders.

He sees the Epsilon 9 station, and notes to Kirk that he is convinced that all of what he is seeing is V'Ger; and that they are inside a living machine. Then he sees a giant image of Lt. Ilia with the sensor on her neck. Spock decides it must have some special meaning, so he attempts to mind-meld with it. He is quickly overwhelmed by the multitude of images flooding his mind, and is thrown backward. Kirk is now in a space suit and has exited the ship. The aperture in front of the Enterprise opens, and Spock's unconscious body floats toward him. Later, Dr. Chapel and Dr. McCoy are examining Spock in sickbay. Dr. McCoy performs scans and determines that Spock endured massive neurological trauma from the mind-meld. Spock informs Kirk he should have known and Kirk asks if he was right about V'Ger. Spock calls it a conscious, living entity. Kirk explains that V'Ger considers the Enterprise a living machine and it's why "Ilia" refers to the ship as an entity and the crew as an infestation.

Spock describes V'Ger's homeworld as a planet populated by living machines with unbelievable technology. But with all that logic and knowledge, V'Ger is barren, with no mystery or meaning. He momentarily lapses into sleep but Kirk rouses him awake to ask what Spock should have known. Spock grasps Kirk's hand and informs him "This simple feeling is beyond V'Ger's comprehension. No meaning, no hope. And Jim, no answers. It's asking questions. 'Is this all that I am? Is there nothing more?'" Uhura chimes in and informs Kirk that they are getting a faint signal from Starfleet. The intruder has been on their monitors for a while and the cloud is rapidly dissipating as it approaches. Sulu also comments that the intruder has slowed to sub-warp speed and is three minutes from Earth orbit. Kirk acknowledges and he, McCoy and Spock go up to the bridge.

Starfleet sends the Enterprise a tactical report on the intruder's position. Uhura informs Kirk that V'Ger is transmitting a signal. Decker and "Ilia" come up to the bridge, and she says that V'Ger is signaling the Creator. Spock determines that the transmission is a radio signal. Decker informs Kirk that V'Ger expects an answer, but Kirk doesn't know the question. Then "Ilia" says that the Creator has not responded. An energy bolt is released from V'Ger and positions itself above Earth. Chekov reports that all planetary defense systems have just gone inoperative. Several more bolts are released, and they all split apart to form smaller ones and they assume equidistant positions around the planet. McCoy notices that the bolts are the same ones that hit the ship earlier, and Spock says that these are hundreds of times more powerful, and from those positions, they can destroy all life on Earth. "Why?" Kirk asks "Ilia". She says that the carbon unit infestation will be removed from the Creator's planet as they are interfering with the Creator's ability to respond and accuses the crew of infesting the Enterprise and interfering in the same manner. Kirk informs "Ilia" that carbon units are a natural function of the Creator's planet and they are living things, not infestations. However, "Ilia" says they are not true life forms like the Creator. McCoy realizes V'Ger must think its creator is a machine.

Spock compares V'Ger to a child, and suggests they treat it like one. McCoy retorts that this child is about to wipe out every living thing on Earth. To get "Ilia's" attention, Kirk says that the carbon units know why the Creator has not responded. "Ilia" demands that the Creator disclose the information. Kirk won't do it until V'Ger withdraws all the orbiting devices. In response to this, V'Ger interrupts the ship's communications with Starfleet. She orders him again to disclose the information. He refuses, and a plasma energy attack shakes the ship. McCoy informs Spock that the child is having a tantrum. Kirk informs the probe that if V'Ger destroys the Enterprise, then the information it needs will also be destroyed. "Ilia" says that it is illogical to withhold the required information, and asks him why he will not disclose it. Kirk explains it is because V'Ger is going to destroy all life forms on Earth. "Ilia" says that they have oppressed the Creator, and Kirk makes it clear he will not disclose anything. "V'Ger needs the information," says "Ilia". Kirk says that V'Ger will have to withdraw all the orbiting devices. "Ilia" says that V'Ger will comply, if the carbon units will give the information.

Spock informs Kirk that V'Ger must have a central brain complex. Kirk theorizes that the orbiting devices are controlled from there. Kirk informs "Ilia" that the information cannot be disclosed to V'Ger's probe, but only to V'Ger itself. "Ilia" stares at the viewscreen, and in response, the aperture opens and drags the ship forward with a tractor beam into the next chamber. Chekov informs Kirk that the energy bolts will reach their final positions and activate in 27 minutes. Kirk calls to Scotty on the intercom and orders him to stand by to execute Starfleet Order 2005; the self-destruct command. A female crew member asks Scotty why Kirk ordered self-destruct, and Scotty informs her that Kirk hopes that when they explode, so will the intruder.

The countdown is now down to 18 minutes. DiFalco reports that they have traveled 17 kilometers inside the vessel. Kirk goes over to Spock's station, and sees that Spock has been crying. "Not for us," Kirk realizes. Spock informs him he is crying for V'Ger, and that he weeps for V'Ger as he would for a brother. As he was when he came aboard the Enterprise, so is V'Ger now--empty, incomplete and searching. Logic and knowledge are not enough. McCoy realizes Spock has found what he needed, but that V'Ger hasn't. Decker wonders what V'Ger would need to fulfill itself. Spock comments that each one of us, at some point in our lives asks, "Why am I here?" "What was I meant to be?" V'Ger hopes to touch its Creator and find those answers. DiFalco directs Kirk's attention to the viewscreen. Ahead of them is a structure with a bright light. Sulu reports that forward motion has stopped. Chekov replies that an oxygen/gravity envelope has formed outside of the ship. "Ilia" points to the structure on the screen and identifies it as V'Ger. Uhura has located the source of the radio signal and it is straight ahead. A passageway forms outside the ship as Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Decker and "Ilia" enter a turbolift.

The landing party exits an airlock on the top of the saucer section and walks up the passageway. At the end of the path is a concave structure, and in the center of it is an ancient NASA probe from three centuries earlier. Kirk tries to rub away the soot on the nameplate and makes out the letters V-GER. He continues to rub away more of the residue, and discovers that the craft is actually Voyager 6. Kirk recalls the history of the Voyager program--it was designed to collect data and transmit it back to Earth. Decker informs Kirk that Voyager 6 disappeared through a black hole over 300 years earlier after it was launched. Kirk says that it must have emerged on the far side of the galaxy and got caught in the machine planet's gravity. Spock theorizes that the planet's inhabitants found the probe to be one of their own kind--primitive, yet kindred. They discovered the probe's 20th century programming, which was to collect data and return that information to its creator. The machines interpreted that instruction literally, and constructed the entire vessel so that Voyager could fulfill its programming. Kirk continues by saying that on its journey back, it amassed so much knowledge that it gained its own consciousness.

"Ilia" informs Kirk that V'Ger awaits the information. Kirk calls Uhura on his communicator and orders her to find information on the Voyager XI probe in the ship's computer library records, specifically the NASA code signal, which will allow the probe to transmit its data. Decker realizes that that is what the probe was signaling--its readiness to transmit everything. Kirk then says that there is no one on Earth who recognizes the old-style signal--the Creator does not answer. Kirk calls out to V'Ger and says that they are the Creator. "Ilia" says that is not logical--carbon units are not true life forms. Kirk says they will prove it by allowing V'Ger to complete its programming. Uhura calls Kirk on his communicator and informs him she has retrieved the code. Kirk orders her to set the Enterprise transmitter to the code frequency and to transmit the signal. Decker reads off the numerical code on his tricorder, and is about to read the final sequence, but Voyager's circuitry burns out, an effort by V'Ger itself to prevent the last part of the code from being transmitted.

"Ilia" says that the Creator must join with V'Ger, and turns toward Decker. McCoy warns Kirk that they only have 10 minutes left. Decker figures out that V'Ger wanted to bring the Creator here and transmit the code signal in person. Spock informs Kirk that V'Ger's knowledge has reached the limits of the universe and it must evolve. Kirk says that V'Ger needs a human quality in order to evolve. Decker thinks that V'Ger joining with the Creator will accomplish that. He then goes over to the damaged circuitry and fixes the wires so he can manually enter the rest of the code through the ground test computer. Kirk tries to stop him, but "Ilia" tosses him aside. Decker informs Kirk that he wants this as much as Kirk wanted the Enterprise. Suddenly, a bright light forms around Decker's body. "Ilia" moves over to him, and the light encompasses them both as they merge together. Their bodies disappear, and the light expands and begins to consume the area. Kirk, Spock and McCoy retreat back to the Enterprise. V'Ger explodes and disappears in a flash of light, leaving the Enterprise above Earth, unharmed. On the bridge, Kirk wonders if they just saw the beginning of a new life form, and Spock says yes and that it is possibly the next step in their evolution. McCoy says that its been a while since he delivered a baby, and hopes that they got this one off to a good start.

Uhura informs Kirk that Starfleet is requesting the ship's damage and injury reports and complete vessel status. Kirk reports that there were only two casualties: Lt. Ilia and Captain Decker. He quickly corrects his statement and changes their status to missing. Vessel status: fully operational. Scotty comes on the bridge and agrees with Kirk that it's time to give the Enterprise a proper shakedown. When Scotty offers to have Spock back on Vulcan in four days, Spock says that's unnecessary, as his task on Vulcan is completed. Kirk orders Sulu to proceed ahead at warp factor one. When DiFalco asks for a heading, Kirk simply says "Out there, thataway." With that, the Enterprise flies overhead and engages warp drive.

A female Vulcan officer sits in the command chair on the bridge of the USS Enterprise. While the senior crew and some cadets work at their consoles, the officer, Lt. Saavik, makes a log entry, then orders Commander Sulu to project a course to avoid entering the Neutral Zone at the Klingon border.

Suddenly, Uhura receives a distress call from the Kobayashi Maru, a ship that has struck a gravitic mine near Altair VI, inside the Neutral Zone. Despite warnings from both Sulu and Spock, Saavik orders the ship to enter the Neutral Zone in order to beam the survivors aboard. Upon entering the Neutral Zone, the Enterprise is confronted with three Klingon battle cruisers, which open fire. The Enterprise is heavily damaged; many of the bridge officers are killed. Saavik has no choice but to order the surviving crew to abandon ship.

However, the filtered voice of Admiral James T. Kirk is suddenly heard. The bridge viewscreen slides aside, revealing a lighted room beyond. The Kobayashi Maru was a Starfleet Academy simulation, one Saavik does not believe to have been a fair test of her command abilities. Kirk explains that the no-win scenario is a situation every commander may face, and that how one faces death is equally important as how one faces life. Saavik seems ruffled at the advice, but Kirk offers that now she has something new to think about. As he leaves, Dr. McCoy asks Kirk why the Enterprise will not once again receive an experienced crew. Kirk replies that space exploration should be left to younger crews, a remark that puzzles Uhura.

Outside the simulator room, Spock awaits Kirk's opinion of the cadets' performance. Kirk notes that the trainees wreaked havoc with the simulator room and Spock alike. Spock recalls Kirk's own Kobayashi Maru, noting that Kirk himself took the test three times and that his final solution was unique. Kirk then thanks Spock for his birthday present, an antique copy of Charles Dickens' novel "A Tale of Two Cities". Spock then leaves to catch a shuttle to board the Enterprise and await Kirk's arrival--he will later inspect the ship. Kirk then retreats to his apartment, to be greeted by Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy, who presents him with two gifts; a bottle of finely-aged Romulan ale and a pair of antique eyeglasses. Noticing Kirk is going through a mid-life crisis, he questions whether Kirk really wants to carry on the duties of an admiral, or to be galaxy hopping on a starship. McCoy urges Kirk to get back his starship command, and the two share a drink sitting by the fireplace.

Meanwhile, Commander Chekov is on board the USS Reliant, which is orbiting the planet Ceti Alpha VI. The crew is searching for a lifeless planet to satisfy the requirements of a test site for the Project Genesis experiment, a terraforming program proposed to the Federation by a group of scientists. Although Ceti Alpha VI should be incapable of supporting life, Chekov detects a minor energy reading on a scanning device. After conferring with Carol Marcus, the head scientist of Project Genesis, who informs them there cannot be a single shred of life on the planet, Chekov and Terrell plan to investigate the life-reading themselves. Chekov and Captain Terrell beam down to the surface. Upon arrival, they fight their way through a blinding sandstorm until they discover and enter what appears to be a crashed derelict vessel.

They soon discover that the derelict is actually cargo carriers assembled together from the SS Botany Bay, a ship Chekov remembers all too well. Panicked, he rushes a confused Terrell toward the exit, only to find that a group of strangely-dressed people are waiting outside. Chekov and Terrell are taken prisoner, and their captor reveals himself as Khan Noonien Singh. He identifies the rest of his group as the remaining survivors of his crew. Khan reveals that 15 years earlier, Captain Kirk exiled Khan and his followers to Ceti Alpha V after the genetically-engineered supermen nearly captured the Enterprise. Khan says that six months after they were marooned, Ceti Alpha VI exploded, destroying Ceti Alpha V's ecosystem and shifting its orbit and position in space. The crew of the Reliant thought they were orbiting Ceti Alpha VI, when in reality they were orbiting Ceti Alpha V instead.

Khan blames Kirk for the death of his wife and plans to avenge her. In order to find out why the two are there, Khan forces juvenile Ceti eels into their ears. Once inside their victims, Khan explains, the Ceti eels wrap themselves around the cerebral cortex of the brain, rendering the victim susceptible to any command and to interrogation. Khan explains further: As the Ceti eels grow and mature inside the brain, the victim is slowly driven insane, followed later by death. Khan calmly asks them about their mission and where he can find Kirk.

Using Chekov and Terrell as his servants, Khan and his henchmen seize control of the Reliant and escape from Ceti Alpha V. Khan later has Chekov contact Carol Marcus at their remote research station, Regula 1, and inform them that Ceti Alpha VI is ready for the testing of Genesis and that Starfleet has ordered all Genesis components to be taken there immediately when Reliant arrives in about three days. Carol is adamant, stating that no one will have access to Genesis without proper approval. Carol's own son, David Marcus, also a scientist and working with his mother's team on the project, asks Chekov who gave the order, Chekov says it came from Admiral Kirk. Furious at Starfleet, Carol meets with her team to figure out what to do.

Under the command of Captain Spock, the Enterprise is being assigned to train cadets from Starfleet Academy, and Kirk, McCoy, Sulu and Uhura come aboard to assist in a short training cruise. Admiral Kirk is inspecting the trainee crew, who are learning the ropes on the Enterprise. The Enterprise leaves her orbiting drydock, under the command of an officer trainee, Lieutenant Saavik, the first of her race to graduate at her level. Once clear, Spock gives Sulu navigational control and the Enterprise speeds away on the training cruise.

Kirk later receives a distress call from Regula 1. Kirk orders the call to be patched through to his quarters, a communication he is nervous about since he and Carol Marcus were romantically involved in the past, a relationship that went sour and resulted in the birth of their son, David.

Furious, Carol asks him why he is taking Project Genesis away from her. Confused, Kirk incredulously denies having any involvement with the order. The already weak transmission becomes even more garbled and communication is soon lost, having been jammed by a nearby Reliant. After consulting with Starfleet Command, Kirk assumes command and orders the Enterprise to set a course for Regula 1.

While en route, Kirk asks Spock and McCoy to join him in becoming familiar himself with Project Genesis. Hosted by Carol Marcus, a video summary explains that the project involves the sophisticated terraforming of dead planets, making them habitable. Because the video was produced a year before, Kirk assumes they have reached "Stage Two" of the project. McCoy asks what the result of using such a device on a living world would be and Spock concludes it would destroy any existing life. McCoy sees the project as a dangerous venture that could be turned into a deadly weapon and is angry at Spock's logical attitude about the dangers. Just at that moment, Saavik calls them over the intercom and informs them that they have made contact with the Reliant.

The Enterprise approaches the Reliant. Despite being unable to contact them, Kirk is not concerned at first and is reluctant to raise shields as, Saavik reminds him, rules and regulations prescribe. However, when the Reliant gives a false status report, Kirk orders a yellow alert, which proves be too little, too late. The Reliant raises its shields, powers up its weapons, and opens fire. The Enterprise is caught off-guard and is badly damaged. Having been on board the Enterprise once before, Khan knows exactly where its weak points are, disabling the Enterprise's main energizers and warp core, leaving only auxiliary power on the ship, and mortally injuring several cadets, including Midshipman 1st Class Peter Preston, Scotty's nephew. Engines are down, shields inoperative, and there is only enough power for a few short phaser shots, which isn't enough against the Reliant's shields.

Khan hails Kirk, who is shocked to see Khan in command of the Reliant. Khan arrogantly announces his plans to destroy the Enterprise, to which Kirk pleads with Khan to take him as prisoner and spare his crew. Khan agrees, but also demands all information on the Genesis Device. Kirk pretends to comply, but he actually has Spock transmit a signal using the Reliant's prefix code that causes the Reliant to lower her shields. Despite his intelligence, Khan is still very inexperienced with the command of a starship. When he realizes what Kirk is doing, he is unable to immediately locate the controls to override the command lowering the shields. With the few shots auxiliary power can give him, Kirk is able to fire at the Reliant, damaging photon controls and the warp drive. Khan is reluctant to withdraw, but the rest of his crew remind him that the Enterprise, with its disabled power systems, cannot escape. Both ships limp away for repairs and the match ends in a stalemate. Sulu congratulates Kirk on his victory, however Kirk admits that he had misjudged the situation and encourages Saavik to quote Starfleet regulations whenever applicable.

Kirk surveys the wounded in sickbay and attends to Peter Preston on his deathbed. With impulse power restored, the Enterprise arrives at Regula 1. Kirk assembles a landing party, and Saavik reminds him of General Order 15 barring him from beaming into a dangerous situation without armed escort. They find the station abandoned and several of the station's scientists gruesomely murdered, and discover Chekov and Terrell, semi-conscious and abandoned inside a storage container. Still quite dazed, Terrell and Chekov relate their experiences with Khan and inform Kirk that Khan is quite insane. When asked where the crew of the Reliant are, Terrell says they were marooned by Khan on Ceti Alpha V. They find that the station's records of the Genesis Device have been erased by the Regula 1 staff. Exploring the station leads them to a transporter that has recently been activated. Checking the coordinates, Saavik realizes they beamed into the Regula planetoid nearby, assuming they had gone to where the second stage of the Genesis experiments were conducted, which would be underground. Kirk asks for a damage report from the Enterprise. Knowing that Khan is listening to their communications, Spock exaggerates and reports that "by the book", hours would seem like days and that transporters will be available in two days, hinting to Kirk that they can be beamed back in about two hours.

Using the transporter coordinates, they beam down to the asteroid and materialize inside a rocky chamber. The Genesis Device is there, but before Kirk can move, he is attacked by his and Carol's son, David Marcus, who accuses Kirk of trying to steal Genesis. Carol tries to defuse the situation, but before she can elaborate, the team is threatened by Chekov and Terrell. Terrell and Chekov reveal they are still under Khan's control and Terrell is ordered by Khan to kill Kirk. However, Terrell resists Khan and the Ceti eel causes him extreme pain. To escape it, he turns his phaser on himself and commits suicide. Chekov collapses and the Ceti eel slurps out of his ear and is promptly vaporized by Kirk. The Genesis Device is suddenly beamed away. Kirk grabs Terrell's wrist communicator and taunts Khan, informing Khan that he will have to come down to the planetoid if he wishes to kill Kirk. Shocked to find Kirk alive and well, Khan vows to leave him marooned on Regula for eternity. An enraged Kirk screams at Khan, who cuts communication.

Kirk avoids Carol and David's questions about Khan by asking for food. Carol and David show Kirk, McCoy and Saavik the Genesis cave, which was created by a smaller Genesis Device: deep within Regula a stable ecosystem now exists, having been created in one day. Before Kirk and Carol join them, they both speak briefly about their past relationship and reach a moment of reconciliation.

In the cave, Saavik asks Kirk, who is casually eating an apple, about his performance on the Kobayashi Maru scenario. McCoy informs her that Kirk is the only Starfleet cadet to beat the no-win scenario. However, Kirk admits he reprogrammed the simulation, making it possible to save the ship and her crew. David chuckles and says he cheated, and Kirk qualifies that he changed the conditions of the test also citing that he had received praise for original thinking and that he does not believe in the no-win scenario. Kirk then promptly contacts the Enterprise and Spock says they should prepare for transport. Kirk smiles at a dumbfounded Saavik and asserts that he doesn't like to lose. Saavik questions what happened throughout the transport and Kirk reminds her of Starfleet Regulation 46A: Spock had modified his report to deceive Khan because their adversary may have been monitoring the Enterprise's transmissions. When Saavik suggests that Spock lied, Spock merely replies he "exaggerated."

Unfortunately, the Enterprise cannot defend herself fully against the Reliant. Spock suggests that the Enterprise set course for the nearby Mutara Nebula, where ionized gases will disrupt the sensors and shields of both vessels, essentially rendering them blind and evening the odds. Khan orders the Reliant to pursue, but his crew is reluctant, as they know the shielding and sensor systems will be rendered useless. Khan's second-in-command, Joachim, reduces speed, believing the situation to be too dangerous.

Back on the Enterprise, Spock notes that the Reliant is reducing speed and seems to be backing away from the pursuit. To ensure that Khan will follow him, Kirk has Uhura contact the Reliant and proceeds to taunt his nemesis, saying "We tried it once your way, Khan. Are you game for a rematch? Khan... I'm laughing at the superior intellect." Enraged by the mockery, Khan behaves irrationally and orders full impulse power and despite Joachim's protests, recklessly launches into the pursuit again. The Battle of the Mutara Nebula ensues. Both ships are quite hampered by the conditions whereas the Enterprise in open space would have been the more vulnerable vessel.

A game of cat-and-mouse follows. Computer targeting does not function, so both crews must rely on manual firing commands based on their view of the opposing ships on the visual display, which is mostly static. Being more experienced, Sulu is able to make better guesses and inflict slight damage but both vessels largely miss each other. As they maneuver half-blind around the nebula, suddenly the static on the Enterprise viewscreen clears enough to reveal that both ships are about to collide. They swerve apart and narrowly miss colliding, and at such point-blank range, even manual firing is sufficient for each vessel to inflict key hits on the other. The Reliant manages to destroy the port torpedo launcher of the Enterprise, which then returns fire and damages the Reliant's bridge, causing an explosion that kills several of the ship's bridge crew including Joachim, whom Khan vows to avenge. In the exchange, serious damage is inflicted again and Scotty is forced to shut down Enterprise's main reactor, which has flooded a control compartment with radiation.

Nevertheless, Kirk is able to ambush the Reliant because of his superior starship combat experience. When Spock suggests that Khan is inexperienced and is using a strategy based on two-dimensional thinking, Kirk orders the Enterprise to drop several thousand meters below the Reliant. The Reliant glides past above the Enterprise. A shaken, but physically recovered Chekov enters the bridge and offers his assistance. Kirk asks him to go to the weapons station. Khan isn't prepared for the Enterprise to descend before he passes overhead and then ascend directly behind him. The Reliant is hit with several phaser blasts, and a torpedo breaks off her port nacelle. The Reliant is crippled and drifts away, trailing plasma. Most of Khan's crew is killed in the process, and Khan himself is left crippled and barely alive by the explosions on the bridge.

In her final attempt to kill Kirk, the mortally wounded Khan activates the Genesis Device, knowing that the shock wave from it will destroy the Enterprise and her crew. The Enterprise cannot escape the large explosion that the device will trigger. Spock exits the bridge and decides to sacrifice his life by entering the radiation-filled engine room and repairing the broken warp drive, while Kirk orders a withdrawal at best possible speed. Realizing that the ship is doomed, Spock silently leaves his console.

On the Reliant's bridge, watching the Enterprise retreat and believing that the ship cannot escape the blast, Khan quotes from the novel "Moby Dick": "From hell's heart, I stab at thee. For hate's sake, I spit my last breath at thee." Khan finally collapses. Spock arrives in engineering, only to be stopped by Dr. McCoy from entering a lethally irradiated compartment that is part of the warp drive system. After initially appearing to comply with McCoy, an apologetic Spock nerve-pinches McCoy, and mind-melds with the doctor, saying simply "Remember..." He dons work gloves, enters the chamber, and begins to repair the main reactor, the radiation from the console spewing directly in his face. Moments later, McCoy regains consciousness and he and Scotty plead in vain with Spock to stop what he is doing.

Spock is successful and the warp engines come on line just in time, and the Enterprise streaks away just as the Genesis Device and Reliant explode. The Mutara Nebula condenses around the explosion, creating a newborn planet. Kirk contacts engineering to congratulate Scotty, but he is unconscious due to the radiation he had been exposed to. McCoy gravely replies that Kirk needs to come down; Kirk notices the empty chair at the science station. A look of dawning horror suddenly fills Kirk's face as he rushes down to Engineering to find Spock, dying. Kirk calls out for Spock and follows as the Vulcan staggers to the side of the transparent radiation barrier, finally resting against it.

Spock attempts with difficulty to explain to Kirk his reasoning: "Don't grieve, Admiral. It is logical. The needs of the many outweigh..." to which Kirk finishes, "the needs of the few," and Spock nods. "Or the one..." However, Spock states that he himself never took the Kobayashi Maru test until now, and asked Kirk, "What do you think of my solution?" Stricken with grief, Kirk cannot reply. Spock says "I have been and always shall be your friend. Live long and prosper." He holds out his hand, in the traditional Vulcan salute, and Kirk presses his hand up to the glass as well, watching as Spock slumps to the floor, and dies. It takes all of his resolve to keep his composure as he sees his closest friend die in front of him.

Spock's funeral is later held on the torpedo deck. Kirk says a few words in Spock's honor, concluding with a befitting statement: "Of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most... human." While Scotty plays "Amazing Grace" on the bagpipes, Spock's body is launched in a torpedo casing into the atmosphere of the newborn Genesis Planet. Later, trying to relax in his quarters, Kirk tries to read his copy of "A Tale of Two Cities". He sees that the glasses given to him by McCoy are broken and he tosses them aside. David visits him and they both reconcile, accepting that they are father and son. Kirk is humbled, especially when David mentions that Kirk had faced death before but never the death of a close and trusted friend like Spock.

On the bridge, the crew and Carol Marcus look at the newborn world formed by the Genesis Wave. McCoy expresses the feelings of Kirk by saying "He's not really dead as long as we find ways to remember him." The Enterprise sets its course for Earth, with a stop at Ceti Alpha V to pick up the Reliant crew. The shot dissolves to various scenes of the ecosystem of the Genesis Planet, finally arriving at Spock's photon tube. In voiceover, we hear Spock's voice reciting the opening Star Trek monologue.

