
Even if you can make the Kessel run in less than 12 parsecs, you'll still likely need this handy primer on the basic chronology of the "Star Wars" saga now that "Rogue One" is about to hit theaters. The seeds for the eventual rise of the evil Empire are sown in a seemingly routine place: a trade dispute between the Republic and the Trade Federation. Two Jedi, the keepers of peace and justice, are dispatched to negotiate the dispute, but it's a trap! They end up barely escaping with their lives, though they do meet R2-D2, who saves their lives. They end up on remote Tatooine, where they meet slave boy Anakin Skywalker and his protocol droid C3PO. Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn senses the Force in Anakin - and believes he's the "Chosen One" who will bring balance to the Force. There's a podrace and Anakin is freed. Qui-Gon wants to train Anakin, but the Jedi Council knows something is up with this boy and rejects it. But he helps the Republic win a battle against the Trade Federation so the Council lets Obi-Wan Kenobi take him as his apprentice.  Anakin is older now, but just as bad an actor. The weird trade dispute has grown to a full-scale revolt against the Republic. Anakin is assigned to protect Republic loyalist Sen. Padme Amidala, and they fall in love. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan discovers that a Jedi master has ordered the creation of an army of clones based on a single bounty hunter, Jango Fett, whom Obi-Wan determines is the assassin trying to kill Padme - though he does not know why. He also has no idea why the Jedi have ordered up a clone army. Meanwhile, Anakin's mom is murdered and he freaks out, channeling the dark side that everyone knows he has in him. The full-scale revolt against the Republic is being led by Count Dooku, a former Jedi, who has built his own droid army. Under pressure, the Galactic Senate votes the Chancellor emergency powers, which (wait for it!) is also a trap! The two armies battle and the Jedi and the Clones barely win. The movie ends with the revelation that Dooku, the revolt, the clones and the droids are all being controlled by an evil Sith Lord - who is actually the Chancellor!  The Chancellor has been captured by a revolt leader General Grievous, but Obi-Wan and Anakin rescue him heroically. The Chancellor, seeking to draw out Anakin's dark side, demands that Anakin assassinate Dooku, which he does. Anakin is dealing with his demons, including visions of Padme dying in childbirth. The Council declines to elevate him to Master status, so the Chancellor puts him on the Jedi Council as his representative (spy). He also brags to Anakin that he knows how to harness the dark side to cheat death ' though you can't learn that from any (dismissively) Jedi. But (wait for it!), it's a trap. Anakin eventually figures out that the Chancellor is a Sith Lord, but when the Jedi try to arrest him, Anakin comes to his aid because he still wants to save Padme from the visions of death. The Chancellor makes Anakin his apprentice and dubs him Darth Vader. He also orders him to kill everyone, including younglings, though a few Jedi, including Yoda, escape. Obi-Wan tries to stop him with an epic lightsaber battle on the molten planet Mustafar, leaving Anakin next to a lava river as little more than a burnt up torso. The Chancellor saves him, puts him in Darth Vader's famous black suit and they start the Death Star. Padme dies in childbirth and her twins, Luke and Leia are separated and hidden from the now-Empire, with Leia going to Alderaan and Luke ending up on Tatooine, with Obi-Wan going into exile there to watch over the boy.  Now older, Luke is just a moisture farmer's boy with no idea of his backstory. But Leia is a major figure in a new rebellion against the Empire. Her ship is attacked by Vader, who makes no mention of the fact that he's her dad. She sneaks the stolen plans for the Death Star into R2-D2, who ends up escaping to Tatooine with C3PO, who is as shrill as ever. The droids end up in service to Luke and his family, but R2 escapes to find Obi-Wan. Few have seen such loyalty in a droid! Obi-Wan tells Luke about his father - but leaves out all the part about him turning evil. They hook up with roguish Han Solo for a flight on the Millennium Falcon so they can get to Alderaan and join the rebellion. First, Solo shoots first and kills Greedo. Then they take off. En route, the Death Star proves that it's the ultimate power in the universe by destroying Alderaan in one shot. The Falcon comes out of hyperspace into the rubble and (wait for it!) it's a trap! The ship is captured by the Empire. Obi-Wan sneaks around and shuts down the forcefield so the Falcon and passengers can escape, but he's struck down by Vader as he flees. The rebels still have the plans for the Death Star and plot a suicide mission that involves dropping a laser bomb into a tiny vent shaft. Solo declines to participate because, hey, he has to pay off Jabba the Hutt anyway. Luke is disappointed, but Solo shows up just in time to save his life and allow him to finish his mission, using the Force and his experience bulls-eyeing womp rats in his T-16. Much celebrations ensue. Vader pursues the rebels to a new hideout on the ice planet of Hoth. Luke is visited by the spirit of Obi-Wan and told to go to Dagobah to study the ways of the Force with Yoda. Han and Leia barely escape and head to the Cloud City run by Han's scoundrel friend Lando Calrissian. But (wait for it!) it's a trap as the Falcon was tracked by Boba Fett - Jango's revenge-seeking son - who alerts Vader what's going on. He shows up and captures Leia and freezes Han in carbonite so Boba Fett can take him to Jabba. Vader has little interest in Solo because he doesn't have the Force. Lando helps Leia escape, but then Luke bails on his training and shows up (it's another trap!), where Vader reveals that he's Luke's father ("Noooooooooooo!"). Luke barely escapes. Lando and Chewbacca head to Tatooine to free Han and Luke and Leia wait for the next movie.  Luke and Leia head to Tatooine to save Han, but Leia is taken as a slave and given a super-hot metal bikini that changed every teenage boy's life. Using super-Jedi powers, Luke infiltrates Jabba's palace and gives Jabba one last warning. The crime boss ignores it and captures Luke. He takes him, Lando, Chewy and Han to a Sarlacc pit intending to drop them in to be digested over many years, but they turn the tables on him, which reminds us all why it's important to heed a Jedi's warning. Luke goes for more training and Yoda reveals that Darth Vader really is his father. Meanwhile, Han and Leia try to stop the completion of a second Death Star by knocking out an energy field that is protecting the construction site. But (wait for it!) it's a trap. Vader brings Luke to the Death Star to meet the Emperor, who tempts Luke to give into his dark side. At one point, the Emperor even asks Luke to kill Vader to take his place, but Luke won't do it - he's a Jedi, he says, "like my father!" That redeems Vader, who kills the Emperor, but dies in the process - but not before revealing to Luke that he still has good in him. The forcefield down, the rebels destroy the second Death Star and there is much rejoicing. Leia tells Han she loves him - and he knows!  OK, so 30 years have passed. Luke has disappeared. Han and Leia have split up. He's reverted to his old ways and gone to seed as a freighter captain still holding a grudge, mourning his failed marriage and, most important, missing his first love, the Millennium Falcon. Leia remains a big wig with the rebels ' who are now called The Resistence (though it is not clear what they are actually resisting). Meanwhile, there's a new evil group in the galaxy far far away called The First Order. It's leader, Kylo Ren, is a Darth Vader fanboy (right down to the Force and the melted Vader helmet he carries around like a trophy) bent on destroying what's left of the Republic. Oh, and he's Leia and Han's son. This wouldn't be a "Star Wars" film without a hero emerging from a desert planet so remote that even the bad guys don't know about it. This time, the hero is a woman, Rey, who slowly begins to feel the Force inside her and uses it to help locate the missing Skywalker, who handled Han and Leia's son's Jedi training so badly that he became Kylo Ren. Han helps the Resistence destroy The First Order's planet-munching machine (isn't there always one of those in a "Star Wars" movie?), but dies in the effort. It's all very sad. But it sets up a great few sequels.  This movie came out before the turn of the millennium, but is the very first "Star Wars" movie, where we meet a young boy, who will eventually become one of the scariest villains in history. A young Jedi apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi and his master Qui-Gon Jinn are caught up in a battle between the Trade Federation and the world of Naboo, led by Queen Amidala. The two Jedi fight to keep the Queen safe from harm and in the process end up on the planet of Tatooine, where they meet a talented boy, Anakin Skywalker, who was born under mysterious circumstances and the Force seems to be strong in him. They free the boy, who leaves his mother Shmi behind. At the climax of the film, Obi-Wan must watch as a Sith Lord Darth Maul kills his master, but he eventually takes out the Sith. On a promise to his master, Obi-Wan vows to train the young boy Anakin, though the Jedi Council oppose this choice because there's a lot of fear and anger inside him. Boy, do they have it right. Also, during a vote of no confidence for the current Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, Naboo's Senator Palpatine is elected the new ruler. This will become important in future films. Set 10 years after "Phantom Menace," Count Dooku is now leading the charge against the Republic. Padme Amidala is no longer a queen but now a senator and there has been an attempt on her life. Obi-Wan and his apprentice Anakin are told to watch over her. While protecting her, Anakin reveals his love for Amidala, even referring to a kiss she gave him in the first movie. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan searches for who tried to kill Amidala and discovers a clone army has been built for the Republic by copying bounty hunter Jango Fett. Jango has kept one of the clones for himself, which he calls his son Boba. Anakin starts to have premonitions about his mother, whom he left behind on Tatooine in the first movie. He sees her in pain, even dying, so he travels back to Tatooine to save her. He ends up slaughtering Tusken Raiders who kidnapped her. she eventually dies, but his outburst is the first sign of the dark side and not becoming of a Jedi. Later, Obi-Wan tracks down Dooku, who is behind the assassination attempt on Amidala and is leading a droid army. Obi-Wan transmits a message to Anakin, who tries to save his master, but is captured as well. Supreme Chancellor Palpatine is given greater power over the Republic and a team of Jedi are sent to rescue Anakin, Obi-Wan and Amidala. Master Yoda eventually joins the Jedi with the clones and they destroy the droids. Jango is also killed. Toward the end of the movie, Dooku battles Obi-Wan and Anakin, cutting off Skywalker's arm. Yoda steps in and saves the duo and Dooku leaves with the Death Star plans for his Sith master Darth Sidious, who is hooded and hidden. The movie ends with Anakin marrying his love Padme in secret. This illicit affair will come into play in the next film. The movie opens with Anakin and Obi-Wan saving Palpatine from General Grievous and Dooku. In the process, Anakin, at the prompting of Palpatine, kills an unarmed Dooku. His turn to the Dark Side is moving further along. We then find out Padme is pregnant and Anakin starts to have dreams that she dies in child birth. Palpatine then tells the young Jedi that he knows ways to save people, starting to reveal he knows ways of the Dark Side. Anakin later figures out Palpatine is the Sith lord and he reports this to Mace Windu and other Jedi. Windu takes down Palpatine, but Anakin stops him, even cuts off his arm and allows Windu to be killed by Palpatine. He then realizes what he's done and there's no turning back. Anakin pledges his allegiance to Palpatine and becomes Darth Vader. The emperor orders the killing of all the Jedi left, even the young ones. Vader helps, but Obi-Wan and Yoda survive. The Republic becomes the Galactic Empire and Palpatine, who is now disfigured from his battle with Windu, is the emperor. Padme tracks down her husband and when he thinks she has turned against him, Vader uses his death choke, but she doesn't die, she is only knocked out. Obi-Wan and Vader duel until the new Sith lord overestimates his powers. Obi-Wan defeats Vader, cutting off his legs and arm, then watches him burn as Vader gets too close to lava. Padme gives birth to Luke and Leia, then dies. Vader is discovered alive but badly disfigured and is outfitted with the robotic armor you see later, but is told by Palpatine that he killed Padme when he attacked her. But this isn't true. Luke goes to live with his uncle Owen and Leia with Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan. The film opens with Galen Erson hiding out on a remote planet, trying to keep his family and his talents away from the newly-formed Empire. He is eventually found and taken, but not before his wife is killed and his daughter Jyn escapes. Years later, an adult Jyn meets the likes of Mon Mothma and Rebel officer Cassian Andor, who are trying to find out more about this secret weapon the Empire is building that can destroy planets. Jyn and company eventually lead a mission to get those Death Star plans, so they can pass them along to the Rebels, who in turn can destroy the weapon. The movie ends with the team all sacrificing themselves for the greater good, but not before the plans are handed off to Leia, who then sends that fateful message to Obi-Wan Kenobi, asking for his help. The Empire and the Rebel Alliance are in all-out war and the movie opens with Leia sending a message to Obi-Wan before she is captured by Darth Vader. The two don't know they are father and daughter. Leia has stolen plans for the Death Star, so that Obi-Wan can alert the rebels on how to destroy it. As explained by trailers and official descriptions, it is in the events of "Rogue One" that the plans were stolen and relayed to Leia. Leia hides the plans in R2-D2, a droid that she knows once belonged to Obi-Wan. R2-D2 and C3PO head to Tatooine, where Obi-Wan is hiding under the name Ben Kenobi. Owen and his nephew Luke Skywalker buy the droids after they are captured and Luke brings them to Obi-Wan. Luke eventually runs into Ben, who tells him about his Jedi past and asks him to come along with him and gives him his father's lightsaber. Obi-Wan tells him that his father was killed by Vader and that it is his destiny to come along for this journey. But Luke refuses, only to go home and find his family murdered. He decides to go with Obi-Wan. Looking for a ride to Alderaan, where Leia told them to go, Luke and Obi-Wan run into Han Solo and Chewbacca in a cantina. They leave only to find Alderaan has been destroyed by the Death Star. The Millennium Falcon, Han's ship, is captured the Death Star, and Luke looks to save Leia, while Obi-Wan battles his old apprentice Darth Vader. Vader strikes down Obi-Wan, but he let him do it to become part of the Force. Vader and the Empire chase down the rebels, but Luke pilots a plane that destroys the Death Star, using the guidance of Obi-Wan, who can talk to him via the Force. Vader notices that the Force is strong in Luke, but he still doesn't realize it's his son. The Rebels are still fighting the Empire and Obi-Wan instructs Luke to find Yoda to train him in the way of the Jedi arts. During an attack on the Rebel base, Han and Leia escape, and the two begin to start a romance. Darth Vader and bounty hunter Boba Fett are looking for the Falcon and its crew. Han and Leia land on Cloud City to meet with Han's old friend Lando Calrissian, but it's a trap and Vader takes Leia, while giving a carbon frozen Han to Fett to sell to Jabba the Hutt. Before he is frozen, Leia yells that she loves him. Lando frees Leia and Chewbacca. While this is happening, Vader confronts Luke, who has come to save his friends after training for some time with Yoda. They fight and Vader wins, cutting off Luke's hand. In a surprise twist, Vader reveals that he is Luke's father, not the man who supposedly killed his father. Luke escapes even after Vader asked his son to join him. Luke and Leia attempt to rescue Han, but are captured, or so you think. Luke gives Jabba one chance to free him and his friends or die at the hand of a Jedi. After refusing, Leia strangles Jabba, while Boba Fett gets eaten by a monster. After freeing his friends, Luke returns to Yoda and before the Jedi master dies, he tells Luke there is "another." He knows it's Leia, his sister. Meanwhile, a new Death Star is being built, so Han leads a plot to shut down the power of the Star's energy shield, so fighters can destroy the new weapon. Luke surrenders to Vader to try and convince him to betray the Emperor. Han and his team are captured because the Emperor knew of their plan. But new friends, the Ewoks, help out and they eventually shut down the shield. Luke battles Vader again, this time defeating his father, but refuses to join the Emperor. The Emperor shoots bolts of the Force at young Luke and Vader needs to step in to save his son, and kill his former master. Vader has Luke take off his mask before he dies as well, so he can see his son with his own eyes for once. The new Death Star is destroyed and there is a large party to celebrate the new freedom in the galaxy. At the end, Luke sees Yoda, Obi-Wan and even Anakin, who are now all part of the Force. 7 - It's been 30 years since the Empire was defeated, but a new foe has emerged, The First Order. Luke Skywalker had been training a new wave of Jedi, but was betrayed by an apprentice, Kylo Ren, and many were killed. Luke then disappeared and the First Order are looking for him to finish what they started. The First Order are led by Supreme Leader Snoke, Kylo Ren and their new weapon, Starkiller Base, which is very similar to a Death Star. The Resistance is led by the now General Leia, ace pilot Poe Dameron and others. Dameron is captured early on by Kylo Ren, but Dameron's driod BB-8 is able to escape with a map to Skywalker. A stormtrooper FN-2187 has an awakening during a battle and decides to leave the First Order, freeing Dameron in the process. They end of crashing on the planet of Jakku, with "Finn," his nickname given to him from Poe, believing Dameron died in the crash. Finn then meets a local scavenger, Rey, and ends up escaping the First Order on a ship they stole, which just happens to be the Millennium Falcon. The Falcon gets caught in a beam, to which we see two figures board -- it's Han and Chewie! Han explains to his new friends that the Jedi are real, while we later find out that Solo is Kylo Ren's father and Kylo Ren, real name Ben Solo, has turned to the Dark Side. Later on, we also find out Rey is Force sensitive as she touches a lightsaber once owned by Luke and his father Anakin, where she gets a Force flashback of Kylo Ren betraying Luke and the others. Rey is eventually captured by Kylo Ren, but he doesn't know much about her. He tries to use the Force to get information from her, BUT she gets information from him instead. He's amazed at how powerful she is. She uses these powers to escape, mind tricking a stormtrooper to let her go. Later Han tries to get Kylo to return home to him and Leia, but he kills his father instead, fully committing to the Dark Side. A battle ensues, which eventually involves Kylo Ren, Finn and Rey, while Chewie and company work to destroy Starkiller Base. Finn shows some lightsaber skills, but is bested by Kylo Ren. Rey, on the other hand, is able to draw Luke's old lightsaber to her and even defeats Kylo Ren using the Force. Kylo Ren escapes as Starkiller Base begins to implode and separates the two from each other. We end with Snoke announcing he will finish training Kylo Ren, and Rey using the now-completed map to find Luke and return his lightsaber he hasn't seen since first battling his father all those years ago.  A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, a lot of stuff happened to characters with weird names in a movie order that people don't generally understand. This may be the description of 'Star Wars' given by someone who either is not a fan, has never seen it or just doesn't get it. Darth Maul (Sith assassin with crazy red face) The revealing of these antagonists is a major part of the plot twists, and should not be mentioned here. Star Wars Power Rankings  Luke Skywalker becomes the Jedi he was always meant to be. Skywalker goes from his humble living on Tatooine with his aunt and uncle to helping the rebellion defeat Emperor Palpatine. Not only that, but any movie that features tiny Ewoks bashing some Stormtroopers is an instant classic in my book. Overall, the entire Star Wars saga comes full circle, with Darth Vader fulfilling his destiny by destroying Emperor Palpatine and bringing balance to the force. Most importantly, Luke Skywalker begins his training under Yoda to become a Jedi knight. This film is best known for the famous scene in which Darth Vader reveals he is the father of Luke Skywalker.  'Star Wars: The Revenge of the Sith' - For many 'Star Wars' fans, it is blasphemy to rank any of the prequel films ahead of the original 'Star Wars' films. But really, "The Revenge of the Sith," is the best display of action and drama when compared to most, if not all of, the films. The film opens with a space battle above Coruscant, with Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi on a mission to rescue Chancellor Palpatine (spoiler: Darth Sidious). When Skywalker completes the mission by killing Count Dooku, Skywalker officially begins his path to the dark side. The "Revenge of the Sith" essentially connects the prequel films to the original three films. As Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker helps Darth Sidious overthrow the republic. In the process, Vader and his clone army kill many of the Jedi in the galaxy. However, Obi-Wan is able to defeat Darth Vader. Immediately afterward, Obi-Wan takes Vader's son, Luke Skywalker, to Tattooine to live with his aunt and uncle while Vader's daughter Leia, is sent to live on Alderaan.  'Star Wars: A New Hope' - The first film in the series, "A New Hope," begins by following the story of a young boy from Tatooine living with his aunt and uncle. His life is forever changed when his uncle buys a pair of seemingly normal droids. R2-D2, the droid purchased by Skywalker's uncle, contains vital plans holding the information needed to destroy the Empire's Death Star. Along with Obi-Wan Kenobi, Skywalker and Han Solo embark on a mission to rescue Princess Leia and deliver the plans to the rebellion. This is the most underrated film of the entire Star Wars series. The film introduces new antagonists, such as Jango Fett and Count Dooku. Moreover, the origins of the clone army are revealed when Obi-Wan visits the mysterious world of Kamino. "Attack of the Clones" features a plethora of entertaining battle scenes, with the battle of Geonosis being especially epic, as the clone and droid armies fight for the first time. Not only that, but also the battle between Yoda and Count Dooku is a fight many Star Wars fans relish to this day.  'Star Wars: The Phantom Menace' - "The Phantom Menace" is typically seen as the least liked film in the Star Wars series. Specifically, fans reference the corny Jar Jar Binks character and the lack of action in the film itself. But really, any film with Liam Neeson fighting with a lightsaber is a film even the casual Star Wars fan should get behind. Though the lack of action (despite the epic pod race scene) and the apparent corny characters in the film make "The Phantom Menace" last in these rankings, the film still is entertaining enough that we won't label it as "bantha fodder."   For someone who has never seen 'Star Wars' and doesn't know who Darth Vader is, the prequels don't make too much sense. Plus, the dramatic reveal that Darth Vader is Luke's father is lost. Release date order is less problematic, but still has some flaws. The full story of Luke Skywalker, Leia Organa and Han Solo is present, however, there is no suspense in the choices Luke will make. There's not really a question of whether he is going to choose the dark or light side of the force. There also isn't any suspense with Han Solo. Anakin Skywalker appears as a ghostly figure. It then makes sense who he is. May the force be with you.  Far off in a distant galaxy, the starship belonging to Princess Leia, a young member of the Imperial Senate, is intercepted in the course of a secret mission by a massive Imperial Star Destroyer. An imperial boarding party blasts its way onto the captured vessel, and after a fierce firefight the crew of Leia's ship is subdued. The dark, forbidding figure of Darth Vader appears, brutally interrogating the crew and ordering his stormtroopers to search the ship for the secret documents he believes it is carrying: the technical readouts for the Empire's mightiest weapon'a planet-sized battle station called the Death Star. In the confusion, Princess Leia slips away and hides the secret documents, as well as a recorded plea for help, in the memory of R2-D2, a maintenance droid (robot). Leia is taken prisoner, but R2 gets away in an escape pod, along with his best friend, the protocol droid C-3PO. After crash-landing on the planet below, a barren, desert world called Tatooine, the droids set off in search of civilization but soon quarrel over the way to go. R2 insists that he has a mission to perform, but C-3PO wants no part of such an adventure. The two droids go their separate ways but are soon reunited when they are both captured by Jawas, child-sized scavengers who trade in droids and technological scraps. The Jawas sell the droids to Owen Lars, a moisture farmer on a remote homestead. Owen's nephew, young Luke Skywalker, cleans the droids and, as he does so, stumbles across a bit of the message Princess Leia had hidden inside R2. The holographic message is addressed to 'Obi-Wan Kenobi,' and Luke, fascinated by the beautiful princess, wonders if she means Ben Kenobi, a mysterious hermit who lives out in the desert wilds. R2, however, refuses to divulge any more of the message. When Luke asks his uncle about the identity of Obi-Wan, Owen is reluctant to even discuss the subject, but he does drop one tantalizing hint: Obi-Wan was a friend of Luke's father, whom Luke never knew. Luke mentions his desire to leave home to attend the Imperial Academy for starpilots, but Uncle Owen is discouraging, much to Luke's frustration. When Luke's aunt Beru reminds Owen that Luke is too much like his father to stay on the farm, Owen replies that that is just what he's afraid of. During the night, R2-D2 slips away, intent on finding Obi-Wan and completing his mission. Luke sets out in search of the truant droid the next morning, taking C-3PO with him. They soon find R2 but are waylaid by Sandpeople, barbaric tribal creatures who attack anyone trespassing on their domain. Luke is knocked unconscious but is saved by the timely appearance of old Ben Kenobi, who frightens off the Sandpeople and brings the group back to his humble shelter. There, Ben explains that he was called Obi-Wan back in days when he was a Jedi Knight, one of an ancient order of warriors who fought for peace and justice in the time of the Old Republic, before the coming of the evil Galactic Empire. Further, he informs Luke that Luke's father was also a Jedi, one of Ben's closest friends, and that his father was killed by Darth Vader, a former pupil of Ben's who turned to the dark side of the Force. The Force, Ben explains, is the source of a Jedi's power. It is an energy field created and sustained by life itself, and it flows through the universe, binding it together. Through training, a Jedi is able to tap into the Force and gain great power and wisdom, but, as the example of Vader shows, there is a seductive, evil path to the Force as well. Ben gives Luke his father's lightsaber, the traditional weapon of a Jedi. After viewing the entirety of Leia's message, Ben says that he intends to join up with the Rebel Alliance challenging the Empire and to bring them the plans hidden in R2's memory. He urges Luke to join him and to learn the ways of the Force, but Luke, echoing his uncle, is reluctant to get involved. Meanwhile, Princess Leia has been taken into captivity on the Death Star. There, Leia is repeatedly interrogated by Darth Vader about the whereabouts of the hidden Rebel base, but she stoutly refuses to crack. When Vader is insolently challenged by the Death Star's Commander, he demonstrates his mastery of the Force by choking the officer into submission merely by raising his finger, until he is restrained by Grand Moff Tarkin, the Imperial governor. Back on Tattooine, Luke and Ben discover that the Jawas have been slaughtered by Imperial troops tracing the droids. Fearing for his aunt and uncle, Luke races home only to find them murdered and the farm in flames. With nothing left to hold him on Tattooine, Luke resolves to join Ben and to become a Jedi. With the droids in tow, Ben and Luke journey to Mos Eisley spaceport in search of a ship to take them to Alderaan, the Princess's home planet. The Mos Eisley cantina, where the best pilots are to be found, is a rough place, and Ben is forced to act with deadly swiftness to defend Luke from a couple of toughs. Nevertheless, the pair manages to hire Han Solo, a brash smuggler, and his copilot, the Wookie Chewbacca, to take them to Alderaan without attracting the attention of the Empire. After the deal is struck, Han Solo is cornered by Greedo, a lackey of Jabba the Hutt and a gangster angry at Solo for dumping one of his shipments. Solo blasts his way out of the confrontation but is forced to talk his way past Jabba himself when he returns to the hangar where his ship, the ugly-but-fast Millennium Falcon, is docked. Solo and Chewbacca are surprised when Imperial troops appear and start firing on the ship in an attempt to reclaim the droids, and the Falcon barely makes it off Tatooine and into hyperspace on the way to Alderaan. On the Death Star, meanwhile, Tarkin has decided to break Leia by threatening her home planet, Alderaan, with destruction. Faced with this appalling dilemma, Leia reveals the location of the hidden base, only to have Tarkin proceed with the attack on Alderaan, merely to demonstrate the power of the Death Star. Aboard the Millennium Falcon, Ben is stricken, feeling the death of Alderaan as a massive tremor in the Force. Luke trains with his lightsaber, even as Han scoffs at Ben's trust in the Force. Ben replies by having Luke fight blind against a floating target, and Luke is able to defend himself by sensing the remote with his feelings alone, thereby taking his first steps, as Ben says, into 'a larger world.' The ship exits hyperspace where Alderaan should be, only to find the planet missing and an asteroid field in its place. Ben realizes the horrible truth when they catch sight of the nearby Death Star, and the Millennium Falcon is quickly captured. The group manages to hide from the guards in Han's smuggling compartments, but Vader senses the presence of his old master, Obi-Wan. The ship is unable to escape the Death Star as long as the station's tractor beam is operational, so Ben goes off alone to deactivate it. In his absence, the others learn that Princess Leia is aboard the station, and Luke convinces them to attempt a rescue. Han and Luke disguise themselves as stormtroopers and, with the droids plugged into the station's computers, break Leia out of her cell. Unfortunately, their activities are soon discovered, and the rescue takes a detour through a massive, monster-infested garbage compactor and several corridors and pitfalls swarming with Imperial troops. Leia is unimpressed with her rescuers' planning and soon begins to issue the orders, much to Han's chagrin. As the group fights its way back to the Falcon, Ben stealthily deactivates the tractor beam. On his way to the ship, Ben is confronted by Darth Vader, who is eager to face his old master. Vader and Ben duel with lightsabers, and the fight draws the attention of the guards. Realizing he is trapped, and not wanting to endanger his friends, Ben allows Vader to strike him down, only to disappear before Vader's stroke hits, merging his consciousness with the Force. Luke is horrified and lashes out, but the others force him onto the Falcon and make they their escape. The fleeing ship is pursued by Imperial fighters but finally escapes, though Leia is convinced that they are being tracked, as indeed they are. The group travels to the Rebel base, with the Death Star right behind. A quick scan of the blueprints provided by R2 offers one slim chance: the Death Star has an Achilles' heel. A direct hit on a small, easily overlooked thermal port will destroy the station, if only a fighter can get close enough to target it. Luke signs up for the desperate assault, but he is disappointed that Han, having received his payment, plans to leave immediately. Watched anxiously by the Rebel command, the fleet of small, single-pilot fighters speeds toward the massive, impregnable Death Star. As the station slowly moves into position to obliterate the Rebels, the pilots maneuver down a narrow trench along the station's equator, where the thermal port lies hidden. Darth Vader leads the counterattack himself and destroys many of the Rebels, including Luke's boyhood friend Biggs, in ship-to-ship combat. Finally, it is up to Luke himself to make a run at the target, and he is saved from Vader at the last minute by Han Solo, who returns in the nick of time and sends Vader spinning away from the station. Heeding Ben's disembodied voice, Luke switches off his computer and uses the Force to guide his aim. Against all odds, Luke succeeds and destroys the Death Star, dealing a major defeat to the Empire and setting himself on the path to becoming a Jedi Knight.  After the destruction of the Death Star, the Empire quickly regroups and begins searching for the new location of the Rebel base. Imperial probe droids fan out across various star systems, and one lands on the surface of the icy planet Hoth. On the surface of Hoth, Han Solo and Luke Skywalker are on patrol near the newly hidden Rebel base. Luke sees the Imperial probe strike the surface and goes to investigate on his own. Before he can identify the probe, Luke is attacked and knocked unconscious by a hulking yeti-like creature. Meanwhile, having returned to the base, Han orders Chewbacca to prepare the ailing Millennium Falcon for departure. Han explains to the Rebel general that he feels compelled to leave because of the bounty hunters sent after him by Jabba the Hutt. As Han heads back to his ship, Leia confronts him and tries to convince him to stay for the sake of the Rebellion. Han tries to get Leia to admit that she has more personal reasons for wanting him to stay, but she refuses and the two quarrel. When Han learns that Luke has still not reported in, he heads out into the deadly Hoth night to find him. In the cave of the creature that attacked him, Luke has been pinioned in ice but is able to use the Force and his lightsaber to fight his way back to the surface. As he wanders blindly in a snowstorm, Luke has a vision of Ben Kenobi, who tells Luke that he must seek out Yoda, the Jedi master who is to train him in the ways of the Force. As Luke collapses, Han appears out of the night to rescue him. Luke recovers after a short stay in the sick bay, and Han and Leia discover that the Imperial probe has located the Rebel base. Aboard his command ship, Darth Vader sees the transmission from the probe and, instantly recognizing the Rebel base, orders his fleet to the Hoth system. However, Admiral Ozzel brings the fleet out of hyperspace in such a way that the Rebels are alerted and have time to prepare an evacuation. Furious, Vader uses the Force to strangle Ozzel and promotes Piett in his place. Luke leads the counterattack that attempts to hold off the approaching Imperial army of massive armored walking transports, as the Rebels hurriedly flee the base. Leia and C-3PO are forced to go with Han in the Falcon, while Luke and R2 head toward the Dagobah system, where Yoda is to be found. Unfortunately, the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon is broken, and Han and Leia are closely pursued by the Imperial fleet. In a desperate maneuver, Han flies into an asteroid field in order to escape the pursuit and barely avoids being crushed or shot down, ultimately finding shelter in a cave on one of the larger asteroids. Luke crash-lands on Dagobah, a swampy planet teeming with animal life but without any settlements or other signs of civilization. Luke and R2 make camp and are interrupted by the intrusion of an annoying, elderly little creature that pokes around, stealing food and offering to take Luke to Yoda. Luke reluctantly accompanies the creature to his home for a meal but quickly becomes impatient and angry at the delay. At this, the creature, who is of course Yoda himself, sighs and says that he cannot train someone so reckless and angry. To his surprise, Luke hears Ben's voice defending him and urging Yoda to take Luke on as a student. Luke begs Yoda for another chance, and Yoda agrees, warning Luke that what is to come will be the greatest challenge he has ever faced. Just as he is hiring a group of bounty hunters to find Han and the others, Darth Vader receives a call from the Emperor, who has sensed that Luke has begun his Jedi training. Vader is given the mission of luring Luke to him so that Luke can either be claimed for the dark side of the Force or destroyed. As the Imperial fleet searches the asteroid field, Han and the others work to get the Falcon repaired. Han and Leia have a tender moment together, and Leia admits that she is drawn to Han when he isn't acting like a scoundrel, a term with which Han is inordinately pleased. The brief moment of peace is cut short, however, when Han realizes that the 'cave' they have taken shelter in is actually the gullet of an enormous, worm-like monster. Han speeds out of the maw of the creature, back into the asteroid field, and back into the sights of the Imperial fleet. Still unable to jump to hyperspace, Han improvises, hiding the Falcon by latching directly onto one of the Star Destroyers. The captain of the Star Destroyer assumes that the ship has escaped, apologizes to Vader, and pays for his error with his life. Meanwhile, Han detaches the Falcon when the larger vessel dumps its garbage and floats away, unseen, with the debris. Han decides to travel to the nearby planet of Bespin, where Lando Calrissian, an old friend, runs an independent mining station. However, Han himself fails to notice that his stealthy maneuver has been anticipated by the bounty hunter Boba Fett, who follows close behind. On Dagobah, Luke's training pushes him to the brink of physical and mental exhaustion. As Luke and Yoda rest before a sinister cave, Yoda tells Luke that the place is connected to the dark side and that Luke must go within and see what he finds. Luke enters the cave only to see a vision of Darth Vader approaching. Luke battles Vader and strikes off his head, but the face he sees within Vader's destroyed mask is his own. Later, when Luke is practicing levitating stones, he is distracted by the sound of his ship sinking further into the swamp where he crashed. Yoda encourages Luke to levitate the ship out of the water, but Luke is convinced such a feat is impossible. Luke makes the attempt, but he doubts himself and therefore fails. Luke is frustrated and angry but quickly awed by the ease with which Yoda then draws the ship out of the water. Han and Leia arrive at Cloud City on Bespin, where they are greeted by Lando, who pretends at first to be angry with Han. Han marvels at the way Lando, once a gambler and rogue, has become a responsible businessman. Leia still does not trust him, sensing something odd about the situation. C-3PO wanders off on his own and disappears, only to be found later, in pieces, by Chewbacca. Before Chewbacca can reassemble C-3PO and find out what happened, Han, Leia, and he are taken to a banquet by Lando. Much to their horror, Lando has betrayed them and Darth Vader is awaiting them in the dining room. The three are taken captive and Han and Chewbacca are tortured, though seemingly without purpose. Back on Dagobah, Luke has another vision, this time of his friends suffering. Yoda tells Luke that what he has seen is may in fact occur, but he warns Luke not to act rashly. Luke insists on going to rescue his friends, though both Ben and Yoda urge him not to face Vader before his training is complete. As Luke and R2 depart Dagobah, Yoda reminds Ben that even if Luke fails, 'there is another.' Lando, meanwhile, has come to regret his decision, which he made in order to preserve the independence of his settlement. Clearly, Vader has no intention of honoring his side of the bargain and plans to do just as he pleases. Vader's goal is to lure Luke to him so that he can be captured and brought before the Emperor, but first he needs to test one last part of his plan. Vader orders that Han be placed in 'carbon freeze,' a sort of suspended animation, so that Vader can be sure that the process he has in store for Luke is not fatal. As Han is lowered into the freezing chamber, Leia at last admits that she loves him, to which he replies, 'I know.' Han is frozen safely and is handed over to Boba Fett. As Luke arrives, Vader lies in wait and Lando resolves to free the others. Luke is guided into Vader's presence and the two at last stand face-to-face. Lando's men surprise the Imperial troops and free Leia and the enraged Chewbacca, who almost kills Lando with his bare hands. Lando convinces them that there is still time to save Han, and they race off. Meanwhile, Luke and Vader duel within the depths of the mining complex. Luke is clearly overmatched by Vader, though he fights bravely and avoids the carbon-freeze ambush. Vader is relentless, however, and continues to push Luke, slowly increasing the intensity of his attacks. Eventually, Luke is bloody and desperate, fighting now simply to escape. Vader is too strong, however, and slices off Luke's hand. Though he is defeated, Luke angrily refuses Vader's offer to join him on the dark side, saying that he could never join the man who killed his father. Luke is devastated by Vader's next revelation: he, Vader, is Luke's father. Unable to deny what the Force tells him to be true, Luke casts himself off of the bridge on which they stand. Leia, meanwhile, has just missed Boba Fett, who has made his escape with Han as his captive. Lando orders the city evacuated, and he, Leia and Chewbacca head to the Millennium Falcon, joined by R2-D2 and C-3PO. Clinging to a weather vane below the floating city, Luke calls out mentally to Leia, who hears him and orders Lando to fly back for him. Luke is saved but deeply shaken by what he has learned. The hyperdrive on the Falcon is still not operational, as Vader gave orders that it be disconnected. R2, fortunately, is aware of the problem and reconnects it just in time for the friends to escape the pursuing fleet. Once they are reunited with the Rebel forces, Luke is given a cybernetic replacement hand. Luke, Leia, and the droids watch as Lando and Chewbacca head off in search of Han. C-3PO and R2-D2 approach the imposing compound of Jabba the Hutt. At the gate, C-3PO explains that they have been sent by their master with a message for Jabba. Despite some resistance, the droids are able to talk their way into the presence of the powerful gangster in his throne room, where he wallows in the presence of his monstrous alien cronies. R2 delivers the message from Luke, who now claims to be a Jedi Knight. Luke simply asks Jabba to bargain for Han Solo's life and offers the droids to Jabba as a gesture of goodwill. Jabba accepts the gift of the droids (to C-3PO's dismay) but flatly refuses to discuss Han, whom he uses, still in carbon freeze, as a decoration in the throne room. C-3PO is put to work as a translator and is soon called upon to interpret for a masked bounty hunter who arrives with Chewbacca in tow. The bounty hunter bargains dangerously with Jabba, earning his respect. Chewbacca is taken to Jabba's dungeons, while the bounty hunter joins the ongoing party. Later that evening, as the others sleep, the mysterious bounty hunter stealthily approaches the frozen Han. The bounty hunter unfreezes Han, who is weakened and temporarily blinded by his hibernation. Just as the bounty hunter reveals herself to be none other than Leia in disguise, Jabba, who has been observing all along, reveals himself and takes her captive. Leia becomes Jabba's personal slave, and Han is reunited with Chewbacca in the dungeons. Soon, Luke appears before Jabba, calmly striding past the guards, whom he immobilizes with a gesture. Luke attempts to use his Jedi powers to influence Jabba, but Jabba's mind is much too strong for such tricks. Jabba uses a trap door to send Luke to meet his pet, the giant rancor, but much to Jabba's surprise, Luke manages to slay the beast. Jabba decides to execute Han, Luke, and Chewbacca together by casting them into the maw of the Sarlacc, a monster something like a cross between a sand lion and a gigantic squid. Luke is unfazed, though Han is less optimistic about their chances. As they hover above the Sarlacc's pit, Luke springs his trap. R2, aboard Jabba's barge, launches Luke's new lightsaber to him, and Lando, who has been undercover as one of Jabba's guards, helps release Han and Chewbacca. Luke uses his Jedi skills to deadly effect, sending many of Jabba's henchmen, including Boba Fett, into the belly of the Sarlacc. Leia makes use of the confusion of the battle to strangle Jabba with her chains. In the end, the friends escape after having destroyed Jabba and freeing Han, Chewbacca, and the droids. Meanwhile, Darth Vader pays a surprise visit to the new Death Star, where construction is running behind schedule. Vader informs the commander that he intends to put them back on schedule before the Emperor himself arrives to inspect the work. Suitably terrified, the commander redoubles his efforts. Luke journeys back to Dagobah, where Yoda tells him that his training is almost complete. All that remains is for Luke to face his father, Darth Vader, once more. Luke tells Yoda that he felt some spark of goodness still within Vader, and that it could be awakened. Luke watches as Yoda dies, fading into oneness with the Force. Ben appears in his ghostly form, and explains that what he told Luke was true, in the sense that, when he became Darth Vader, the man who had been Anakin Skywalker was killed. Ben then reveals that Luke has a sister as well, and Luke instantly knows that he means Leia. In the meantime, the Rebel Alliance has received word of the location of the new Death Star, and, further, that the Emperor himself plans to visit the site soon. The Rebel leaders hastily put together a plan: Lando and Admiral Ackbar will lead a direct assault on the Death Star while it is unfinished and vulnerable. At the same time, Han will lead a commando raid on the nearby moon of Endor to knock out the force field generator that is the Death Star's only protection. Leia, Chewbacca, and the droids volunteer for the mission, as does Luke, who arrives at the last minute from Dagobah. As the commando group makes its way to the forest moon, Luke senses Vader's presence nearby, just as Vader senses him. Soon, the Emperor arrives aboard the Death Star and Vader informs him of Luke's presence on the moon below. The Emperor instructs Vader to bring Luke before him, and Vader departs. The commando group, meanwhile, soon encounters Imperial scouts, who speed off on hoverbikes. Luke and Leia take off after them and become separated after a chaotic running battle through the trees. Luke returns safely, but Leia encounters Wicket, an Ewok'a creature rather like a teddy bear'who helps her defeat the stormtrooper she was chasing and takes her back with him to his village. Han, Luke, Chewbacca, and the droids soon meet Ewoks of their own, when Chewbacca springs a trap and they are all captured. The primitive Ewoks regard C-3PO as a god and begin to prepare to cook the others as part of a feast in his honor. Luke uses his powers, and their mistaken belief that C-3PO is a deity, to frighten the Ewoks into releasing them. Leia soon rejoins the group and they spend the night in the Ewok village. As C-3PO regales the tribe with tales of the group's adventures, Luke tells Leia that he intends to face Vader and that if he is killed, she, his sister, must carry on the Jedi legacy. Luke then departs to seek out Vader. Han sees Luke and Leia deep in discussion and grows jealous. Leia comforts him without explaining. Luke turns himself in to the Imperial forces and is soon with Vader. Luke tells Vader that he intends to turn him away from the dark side of the Force, but Vader dismisses the notion, though somewhat regretfully. Meanwhile, the Rebel fleet has assembled and moves into hyperspace for the assault. Han's commando team is taken by the Ewoks to a 'back door' to the shield generator, where they quickly break in and begin to set their explosives. Luke is soon standing before the Emperor, the master of the dark side. The Emperor explains to Luke that the entire situation was a set-up: he has foreseen the approach of the Rebel Fleet and laid a trap on Endor for Han's group. On Endor, the Emperor's trap is sprung as Imperial stormtroopers appear out of nowhere and overwhelm the commandos. The Ewoks, however, see what is taking place and decide to act themselves, and they suddenly attack the Imperial troops. The Rebel fleet appears out of hyperspace only to find the shield still up and a fleet of Star Destroyers awaiting them. Lando, aboard the Millennium Falcon, convinces Ackbar to stay and fight, trusting Han to get the shield down before they are all destroyed. The Emperor then tells Luke his last surprise: the Death Star, though structurally incomplete, is fully operational. The Emperor gives the order, and the Death Star begins blasting the Rebel fleet apart. Lando and Ackbar take their ships right among the Star Destroyers, hoping to use them as shields against the overwhelming power of the Death Star. Luke, meanwhile, is fighting for self-control as the Emperor tries to goad him into acting out of anger and hatred, which will carry him over to the dark side. Luke springs into action, reclaiming his lightsaber. The Emperor watches with glee as father and son begin to duel before him, knowing that the survivor will remain his servant. On Endor, the Ewoks fight bravely, using their primitive spears and slings to surprisingly good effect against the heavily armored, well-trained, and vastly technologically superior Imperial forces. Eventually, Han is able to use the confusion the Ewoks cause to lure the Imperial officers out of the bunker and take them captive. They then destroy the shield generator, leaving the Death Star open to attack. Luke masters himself and refuses to fight Vader aggressively, simply defending himself from attack. However, Luke is forced to attack when Vader is able to read his feelings and learns for the first time that Luke has a twin sister. In order to save Leia, Luke attacks and defeats Vader, as the Emperor spurs him on. Luke, however, does not kill Vader when he has the chance. Rather, he throws away his lightsaber and faces the Emperor, fully in control and now a true Jedi. Lando and several fighters fly directly into the superstructure of the Death Star and blow up the main reactor, escaping just ahead of the resulting blast. Enraged at losing Luke, the Emperor strikes him with purple bolts of pure dark side energy, slowly killing him as Vader watches. At last, something in Vader snaps, and he heaves the Emperor bodily into an abyss where he is torn apart by the Death Star generators. Luke has a last conversation with his father, now Anakin Skywalker again, and sees his shattered face before he dies. Luke escapes with his father's body just before the Death Star explodes. The friends are reunited on Endor, where Luke and Leia's relationship is explained to Han. As celebrations break out across the galaxy, on Endor, Luke sees the ghostly forms of Ben, Yoda, and now Anakin, smiling at him. In the last days of the Galactic Republic, dissension is being spread across the galaxy and in the halls of the Republic Senate by the actions of the Trade Federation, a scheming cartel that has blockaded the planet of Naboo in the hopes of coercing the inhabitants into signing an exploitative treaty. Jedi Knights, defenders of peace and justice in the galaxy, are sent to negotiate an end to the conflict before it escalates any further. However, almost as soon as the Jedi ambassadors, Master Qui-Gon Jin and his 'Padawan,' or apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, have boarded the Trade Federation's command vessel, they are attacked by the droid (robot) soldiers of Nute Gunray, viceroy of the Trade Federation. Gunray is acting on the orders of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, a shadowy figure who is manipulating events for sinister purposes of his own. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan battle their way out of trouble and stow away aboard vessels that are carrying a massive droid army to the surface of Naboo. The Jedi Knights hope to find Queen Amidala, leader of the Naboo, who has refused the Trade Federation's terms but still hopes to avert a war. On the surface of Naboo, Qui-Gon saves Jar-Jar Binks, a friendly but clumsy (and rather stupid) native of the planet from being crushed by a droid tank. Jar-Jar is a Gungan, a member of an amphibian race that shares the planet with the human Naboo. In gratitude, Jar-Jar offers to take Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan to the safety of the underwater Gungan city, even though he himself has been exiled. Despite their best efforts, the Jedi are unable to convince the mistrustful Gungans to ally with the Naboo, though Qui-Gon uses his Jedi powers on Boss Nass, the Gungan leader, to finagle a transport out. With Jar-Jar as their navigator, Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan take a harrowing, monster-plagued trip through the planet's core, surfacing outside the palace of Queen Amidala. The palace has already been breached by the droid army, and Qui-Gon acts quickly to free the queen before she can be imprisoned or forced to sign the treaty. The queen makes her escape from the planet along with the Jedi, but her ship is damaged when they pass through the Federation blockade, only escaping thanks to the efforts of R2-D2, a valiant astromech droid. The queen's ship makes an emergency landing on the planet Tatooine, an out-of-the-way desert planet where the Trade Federation has no presence. Qui-Gon, R2, and Padme, one of Amidala's handmaids, go into the nearby town to search for replacement parts for the damaged ship. In the shop of Watto, a winged alien motivated purely by greed, they meet a young boy named Anakin Skywalker, who has a remarkable facility with machines, having built his own protocol droid, the unfinished C-3PO. Watto has the parts Qui-Gon needs but refuses to accept Republic credits as payment. When young Anakin acts bravely to save Jar-Jar from an alien hoodlum named Sebulba, Qui-Gon notices that the boy seems to have an extraordinary connection to the Force'the energy field, created by life itself, that gives the Jedi their power. Determined to investigate the boy, Qui-Gon visits his home and meets his mother, who, like her son, is a slave of Watto's. Padme accompanies Qui-Gon and quickly befriends the intense little boy. Qui-Gon learns from Anakin's mother that Anakin has no father, apparently having been conceived in some miraculous manner. Qui-Gon is now convinced, thanks to Anakin's miraculous conception and to the extremely high midichlorion count in Anakin's blood (midichlorions being microscopic life forms that connect organisms to the Force) that Anakin is the 'Chosen One,' a mysterious figure in Jedi prophecy, who is destined to bring balance to the Force. Qui-Gon schemes to win Anakin's freedom by entering Anakin in a Pod race, an incredibly dangerous contest involving jet-powered speeders. When Anakin defeats the other racers, including the vicious Sebulba, Qui-Gon wins both the parts he needs and Anakin's freedom from Watto. Anakin is reluctant to leave his mother behind, but she urges Anakin to seek out his true destiny with the Jedi. As the group prepares to leave Tatooine, they are attacked by the apprentice of Sidious, Darth Maul, who has been dispatched to kill Queen Amidala. Qui-Gon fends him off, and they make their escape. The queen and her Jedi escort proceed to the planet Coruscant, which is one enormous city and the capital of the Republic. There, she learns from her representative, Senator Palpatine, that the Senate is deadlocked by intrigue and corruption, and it will not act to save Naboo. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon reports his disturbing findings to the Jedi Council: not only have the Jedi's ancient enemies, the Sith, resurfaced, but Anakin, an untrained boy, seems to be the Chosen One. The Jedi Council, led by Masters Yoda and Mace Windu, do not want to train Anakin, but Qui-Gon vows to train the boy himself if they will not. In the Senate, debate bogs down just as Palpatine predicts. In a last-ditch effort to spur the Senate to action, Amidala calls for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Velorum, the ineffectual leader of the Senate. As a result, Palpatine himself is now well positioned to take the Chancellor's position. Despite this victory, Amidala fears that it is too late for a political solution to the crisis on her homeworld and immediately returns to face whatever happens at the side of her people. Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan, and Anakin accompany Amidala to the encampment of the Gungans, whom she hopes to recruit to her cause. At the ensuing meeting, Padme reveals that she is, in fact, none other than the queen herself, having employed a series of look-alike decoys for security and to allow herself greater freedom. Padme begs the Gungans for help, assuring them that the Naboo do not look upon them as inferiors, as the Gungans have always believed. The plan that Padme proposes involves the Gungan army drawing the Federation droids into a battle outside the city, allowing Padme's smaller group to sneak into the palace and capture the viceroy. Not only does Boss Nass agree to help out, he also promotes Jar-Jar to general in recognition of his help in bringing the two races together. After a massive battle, the Gungans are at last forced to surrender, and all seems lost. However, in the meantime, Padme's soldiers attack the palace and send up a fleet of fighters to destroy the main ship, which is remotely controlling the droids. Padme is able to capture the viceroy, and little Anakin takes part in the battle when the fighter ship he hides in takes off under autopilot. Anakin takes control with R2's help and manages, with a combination of luck and natural ability, to destroy the ship controlling the droids. All the while, a smaller but no less intense battle is raging elsewhere in the palace, as the fearsome Darth Maul reappears and takes on Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan together. Obi-wan is forced to watch as Maul cuts down his master, Qui-Gon, but Obi-Wan is finally able to vanquish Darth Maul after a furious lightsaber duel. With the control ship destroyed, the droid army shuts down, and the Trade Federation is forced to surrender. Naboo is free and united, Obi-Wan is made a Jedi Knight, and Anakin is his new Padawan, though the Republic remains under a mysterious, growing shadow. A separatist group of star systems has broken off from the Republic, led by Count Dooku, a former Jedi. Padme Amidala, now the Republic Senator from Naboo, returns to Coruscant to debate the creation of an Army of the Republic to meet this new challenge. When Padme's ship lands on Coruscant, however, it is blown up in an assassination attempt. Padme survives, thanks to the Naboo custom of using decoys and doubles. However, Chancellor Palpatine insists that Padme receive an extra guard detail: Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan, Anakin, now grown from a small boy to a brash young man. Anakin is the most gifted Jedi of his day, but he is also reckless and headstrong, challenging Obi-Wan's authority though looking up to him as a father figure. Anakin has never forgotten his early friendship with the beautiful Padme and is now completely in love with her. As they stand guard over Padme's bedroom, Obi-Wan advises Anakin to control his feelings, reminding him that he has pledged his life to the Jedi. An assassin, taking orders from a mysterious bounty hunter, attempts to kill Padme using poisonous centipede-like creatures. Obi-Wan and Anakin foil the plot and trace the droid sent by the assassin back to her hiding place. After a wild speeder chase through the skies of Coruscant, Obi-Wan corners and captures the assassin in a nightclub. Before Obi-Wan and Anakin have the chance to interrogate her, however, the assassin is herself killed by the bounty hunter who hired her, who then makes his escape. In response to this new development, the Jedi Council asks Obi-Wan to investigate the assassination attempts, while Anakin is assigned to escort Padme back home and to guard her once she is there. In addition to these political matters, the Jedi are concerned that as the dark side waxes in power, their own influence over the Force seems to be waning. While Anakin and Padme travel incognito, they continue to grow close, with Anakin explaining the way of the Jedi to Padme and having more and more trouble hiding his affection for her. Obi-Wan learns through his sources that the poison dart used by the bounty hunter comes from a distant planet, outside the Republic, called Kamino. Obi-Wan discovers that Kamino has somehow, and for some unknown reason, been erased from the charts in the Jedi archives, as if to keep the system hidden. At Yoda's urging, Obi-Wan travels to Kamino, where he discovers that the master cloners of that world have been busy creating a massive clone army at the request of the Republic and the Jedi, or so they say. When Obi-Wan asks the leaders on the Jedi Council about this army, however, they are as surprised to learn of its existence as he. Back on Naboo, Anakin's crush on Padme blossoms into a full-fledged love affair, despite Padme's initial reluctance. Padme and Anakin's idyllic time together is disturbed, however, both by the knowledge that theirs is a forbidden love and by a vision Anakin has of his mother's suffering on Tatooine. Padme and Anakin journey together to Tatooine so that Anakin can investigate his vision. On Kamino, Obi-Wan inspects the clone army and learns that the model for the clones is none other than Jango Fett, the bounty hunter he has been pursuing all along. Obi-Wan questions Jango and his clone son Boba, but with little result. Jango then tries to sneak off the planet, but Obi-Wan catches him and, after a short but fierce clash, tracks him through space to the planet Geonosis, where Dooku's Separatist movement is based. There, Obi-Wan finds yet another giant army under construction, this one composed of droids. Obi-Wan sends a message reporting his findings to Anakin, telling him to relay it to the Jedi Council, and then Obi-Wan is captured. On Tatooine, Anakin and Padme learn that Anakin's mother, Shmi, has been sold by Watto to a man named Cliegg Lars, who later fell in love with and married her. Anakin now has a stepbrother, Owen, and meets his old droid C-3PO as well, but he is more concerned with finding Shmi, who has been kidnapped by the Sandpeople. Anakin tracks down the Sandpeople and finds his mother, but it is too late, and she dies in his arms. Enraged, Anakin slaughters the Sandpeople, including the women and children, as he later confesses to Padme. Padme is disturbed by this confession and by Anakin's desire for power great enough to stop death itself, though she tries to remind him that there is good in him as well. In response to Obi-Wan's message, Padme and Anakin journey to Geonosis to rescue him, taking C-3PO along with them. Count Dooku attempts to win Obi-Wan to his side, telling him that the Sith have somehow gained control of the Senate and are manipulating events, but Obi-Wan refuses. On Coruscant, Jar-Jar Binks, acting in Padme's place and under the influence of Chancellor Palpatine, calls a vote to give the chancellor emergency powers. Thanks to this vote, Palpatine now has unprecedented sway over the Republic and vows to bring an end to the Separatist movement. After a dangerous battle in the Geonosian robot factory, Padme and Anakin are captured and sentenced to execution, along with Obi-Wan, in a huge arena. Obi-Wan, Anakin, and Padme battle the giant creatures sent out to kill them, though with little hope. The sudden arrival of Mace Windu and a strike team of Jedi Knights alters the situation. The Jedi free the captives, and Mace Windu himself kills Jango Fett, but soon even the skills of the Jedi begin to be overwhelmed by the unending waves of droid soldiers Count Dooku commands. At the last second, rescue arrives in the form of the clone army, which has been commandeered by Yoda. Yoda evacuates the surviving Jedi and leads the clone army in an all-out assault on the Separatist base. The Jedi and their new army defeat the Separatists, though the Separatist leadership mostly escapes. Anakin and Obi-Wan follow the fleeing Dooku to his hangar, where they finally confront him. Anakin foolishly attacks Dooku on his own, and Dooku is able to take on each in turn, defeating first Obi-Wan and then Anakin, severing Anakin's arm in the process. Yoda appears on the scene once more, however, and forces Dooku to flee after a spectacular lightsaber duel. Dooku returns to Coruscant, where he is greeted as Darth Tyranus by the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, who has indeed engineered this chain of events. Yoda reminds his followers that despite the triumph on the battlefield, there is no victory, since the Clone Wars have now begun. Padme and Anakin, fitted with a cybernetic arm, are secretly wed. They look forward to an uncertain future.   "It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic Empire. During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the DEATH STAR, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet.  Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy'."  "It is a dark time for the Rebellion. Although the Death Star has been destroyed, Imperial troops have driven the Rebel forces from their hidden base and pursued them across the galaxy. Evading the dreaded Imperial Starfleet, a group of freedom fighters led by Luke Skywalker has established a new secret base on the remote ice world of Hoth. The evil lord Darth Vader, obsessed with finding young Skywalker, has dispatched thousands of remote probes into the far reaches of space'."   the one in which the evil empire is taken down a peg or two. "Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the vile gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of rebels struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy..." the one in which Star Wars becomes a lesson in trade disputes and economic sanctions.  "Turmoil has engulfed the Galactic Republic. The taxation of trade routes to outlying star systems is in dispute. Hoping to resolve the matter with a blockade of deadly battleships, the greedy Trade Federation has stopped all shipping to the small planet of Naboo. While the congress of the Republic endlessly debates this alarming chain of events, the Supreme Chancellor has secretly dispatched two Jedi Knights, the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, to settle the conflict...." There's always a bigger fish.. "There is unrest in the Galactic Senate. Several thousand solar systems have declared their intentions to leave the Republic. This separatist movement, under the leadership of the mysterious Count Dooku, has made it difficult for the limited number of Jedi Knights to maintain peace and order in the galaxy. Senator Amidala, the former Queen of Naboo, is returning to the Galactic Senate to vote on the critical issue of creating an ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC to assist the overwhelmed Jedi...." the one in which everyone dies, one way or another.  War! The Republic is crumbling under attacks by the ruthless Sith Lord, Count Dooku. There are heroes on both sides. Evil is everywhere. In a stunning move, the fiendish droid leader, General Grievous, has swept into the Republic capital and kidnapped Chancellor Palpatine, leader of the Galactic Senate. As the Separatist Droid Army attempts to flee the besieged capital with their valuable hostage, two Jedi Knights lead a desperate mission to rescue the captive Chancellor.... This crawl was notable for revealing the title of the next sequel, The Last Jedi. Of course, no one knew this was the title at the time but director Rian Johnson sure did! Luke Skywalker has vanished. In his absence, the sinister FIRST ORDER has risen from the ashes of the Empire and will not rest until Skywalker, the last Jedi, has been destroyed. With the support of the REPUBLIC, General Leia Organa leads a brave RESISTANCE. She is desperate to find her brother Luke and gain his help in restoring peace and justice to the galaxy. Leia has sent her most daring pilot on a secret mission to Jakku, where an old ally has discovered a clue to Luke's whereabouts . . . . The FIRST ORDER reigns. Having decimated the peaceful Republic, Supreme Leader Snoke now deploys his merciless legions to seize military control of the galaxy. "Only General Leia Organa's band of RESISTANCE fighters stand against the rising tyranny, certain that Jedi Master Luke Skywalker will return and restore a spark of hope to the fight. "But the Resistance has been exposed. As the First Order speeds toward the rebel base, the brave heroes mount a desperate escape...." The film begins with the traditional text: A LONG TIME AGO IN A GALAXY FAR FAR AWAY... but instantly leaps to the action. No opening crawl. In the early years of the Galactic Empire, we see an Imperial ship landing on the planet Lah'mu. Jyn Erso sees it and runs to warn her father, Galen Erso and mother, Lyra Erso . Lyra calls Saw Gerrera and tells him that "He's come for us". Galen says goodbye to his daughter and tells her that he loves her, calling her "Stardust", as he heads off alone to face the Empire. Jyn and her mother run to the foothills behind the farmhouse. They stop and Lyra asks Jyn if she knows where to go, meaning that Jyn is to proceed on her own. She then takes off her necklace, which has a clear crystal orb on it, attaches it around Jyn's neck, and as a way of saying goodbye tells her to "Trust the Force". Outside, Galen meets Orson Krennic, a high-ranking Imperial military officer, who tries to get Galen to come back to work for the Empire. He asks about his family and Galen lies that his wife is dead. When Orson tells his Stormtrooper bodyguards to check the house, Lyra appears and draws a weapon on Krennic; they have a standoff. Lyra shoots Krennic, hitting his arm, and is killed. A Stormtrooper toy is discovered and Krennic tells his guards to find Galen's daughter (who stayed out of sight but witnesses the incident). Jyn runs away and hides in a prepared bolt-hole under a rock in a cave. Saw Gerrera eventually finds and rescues her. Fifteen years later, in the Ring of Kafrene, an adult Jyn is held in a cell. Meanwhile, commanders of the Rebel Alliance, led by Mon Mothma, a senator of the Old Republic Senate-turned-Imperial Senate, discuss the Empire's plan to create a giant weapon capable of destroying entire planets. On the planet Jedha, Bodhi Rook, a pilot who has defected from the Empire and wants to join the Rebels, arrives and is apprehended by the local forces there. On the planet Wobani, Jyn is being transferred with other prisoners. Suddenly, Rebel forces break in and free them. Wanting to escape, Jyn attacks the Rebels and tries to flee but is stopped by K-2SO (voice: Alan Tudyk), an Imperial enforcer droid who's been re-purposed to work for the rebellion. On the moon Yavin 4, the location of the Rebel base of operations, Mon Mothma and other Rebel leaders talk to Jyn about her father. She says that she last saw her dad 15 years ago. The Rebels also question her about Saw Gerrera and tell her that he is an extremist causing problems in Jedha. The Rebels say that finding Saw and the captured pilot is paramount to find out what the Empire is plotting. They offer her a deal: find Saw, and she is free to go. As Jyn boards the ship taking her to Jedha with K-2SO and the pilot Cassian Andor, Cassian is told to kill their target and not perform any extraction. At Jedha, Bodhi is confronted by Saw, who now has prosthetic legs and uses a supplemental oxygen mask. Saw doesn't believe Bodhi's story and interrogates him harshly, eventually bringing in a Bor Gullet, a tentacled creature that terrifies Bodhi and can apparently read his mind. Aboard an Imperial Star Destroyer, Krennic discusses with Grand Moff Tarkin, the Imperial governor of the outlying areas and overall commander of the Imperial Navy, the "ultimate weapon" they are creating. Krennic urges that they perform a test of the weapon. Meanwhile, Jyn, K-2SO, and Cassian arrive at Jedha. K-2SO is told to wait at the ship, and while Cassian scouts the area, Jyn is approached by Chirrut Imwe, a blind warrior who notices her necklace and the quality of the stone. Later, when Jyn and Cassian roam the city, they notice snipers and the area quickly erupts into a battle. Rebel and Empire forces fight and, while Jyn and Cassian take care of the Stormtrooper, K-2SO arrives and defeats the last set of Stormtroopers that arrive on the scene. As they leave the area, they run into another set of Stormtroopers who want to detain them. Chirrut tries asking the Stormtroopers to let them go but is attacked by the Stormtroopers. Showing excellent skill despite his visual impairment, Chirrut defeats the Stormtroopers with a little help from Baze Malbus, but they are captured by Saw's crew. While Cassian, Chirrut, and Baze are in a cell, they quickly notice that Bodhi is in the cell next door. Jyn is brought directly to Saw. Saw is surprised to see Jyn, but Jyn instantly confronts him about abandoning her when she was 16. Saw replies that he did it to give her her best chance and suspects Jyn of being told to head here to kill him. Jyn says that she wants nothing to do with the rebellion at all. On board the the new weapon, Tarkin makes the decision to test the station's superlaser on Jedha and a course is plotted to go there. Saw shows Jyn a hologram sent by her father. Her father says in the message that he went with the Empire to give the rebels their best chances and that the weapon they were building is called the Death Star. He says that he made a fail-safe in the death star by placing a trap within it that will cause a chain reaction, destroying it. He also apologizes to a tearful Jyn and tells her to fight for him and to finish what he started: "Save the rebellion and save the dream." Suddenly, the Death Star attacks Jedha, firing the station's superlaser onto the surface and destroying millions of square miles. Chirrut, Bodhi, and Baze head to the ship while Cassian gets Jyn. Despite Jyn's help, Saw acknowledges his weakness and tells her to leave him. Everyone else escapes in the ship with K-2SO while Jedha is destroyed and Saw is crushed to death. With their test successful and Jedha gone, the Imperial leaders rejoice. However, Governor Tarkin decides to claim all the credit, shutting out Krennic as director of the project. Tarkin threatens further action against Krennic should he protest against his or the Empire's policies. On the ship, Cassian is secretly given instructions to kill Galen if they find him. The people on the ship discuss Jyn's report of the hologram but, as she left it behind in Jedha, there is no proof to convince the Alliance. She convinces them, however, to head to Eadu to find Galen. On Eadu, an Imperial mining planet with constant darkness and rain, the crew crash-lands their ship. As Cassian and Bodhi head out, Jyn questions Cassian's motives. Upon hearing K-2SO say that Cassian's weapon was in sniper mode, she heads out, followed by Chirrut and Baze. Nearby, at the Eadu Mining Facility, Krennic is interrogating Galen and six other engineers working for the Empire because he believes one of them is secretly working for the rebels. When Krennic threatens to kill everyone, Galen steps forward and confesses. Krennic still kills the other engineers. While this is happening, Cassian has his rifle sights on Galen but, eventually, does not pull the trigger. Meanwhile, Jyn has climbed a long ladder to the platform where Krennic and her father are. Jyn calls out to her father just as rebel forces arrive in X-Wing fighters and cause an explosion and a fight. When she regains consciousness, Jyn finds her father in critical condition. She tearfully reunites with her father before Galen passes away and Cassian pulls her from his body as they head out of Eadu. On the ship, an angry Jyn questions Cassian on his motives and he replies that everyone has lost something for the rebellion, and that she only truly started to care because of her father. Krennic arrives on the planet Mustafar and reports everything to the chief enforcer, Darth Vader (Spencer Wilding and Daniel Naprous; voice: James Earl Jones). Vader is angry and Force-chokes Krennic, letting him go after ordering him to make the Death Star work without any flaws. At a meeting back on Yavin 4, the rebel leaders, among them Senator Bail Organa and General Dodonna, are doubtful of Jyn's story and her credibility. Jyn proposes to infiltrate the Empire's data storage facility on Scarif and get the plans for the Death Star, ending her argument by saying rebellions are built on hope. She fails to get approval, as Mon Mothma opposes any strike against Scarif and the other rebel leaders agree it's too risky. Senator Organa then leaves to travel back to his homeworld of Alderaan to have a talk with his adopted daughter to try to help and seek out a former Clone War veteran who may help out the Alliance. Outside, Cassian approaches Jyn about the mission -- a dozen other rebel fighters have decided to join them. With their crew in tow, they use the call sign 'Rogue One' and head to Scarif to find the Death Star plans themselves. At Scarif, Bodhi uses his old Imperial passwords to get through the gate in the force field that protects the planet and get permission to land. K-2SO, Jyn, and Cassian head into the facility to get the plans while the other rebels plant explosives around the landing pads on the perimeter of the facility's island atolls. Director Krennic arrives on Scarif around the same time to review transmissions involving Galen Erso as well as Governor Tarkin. Soon enough, the rebels detonate explosions all over the island. With a full-on battle emerging, the rebel fleet arrives -- the leaders had a change of heart. (There's a cameo scene of R2-D2 and C-3PO in which C-3PO comments on the rebels going to battle.) The rebels' first challenge is to slip through the gate in the force field before the Imperial forces close it and block their access to the surface of the planet. In the access room for one of the storage units, Jyn and Cassian enter the data storage area to find and extract the plans to the Death Star while K-2SO stays back by the console to help with the search and guard their backs. While they search for the plans, K-2SO fights off Stormtroopers. They eventually identify the plans under the code name of the nickname Jyn's father gave her -- Stardust. When they find the files, K-2SO notes the force field and tells them to deliver the plans by getting the physical media themselves -- it's in a structure that's designed to be accessed by mechanical arms -- and then climbing all the way to the top of the tower to transmit the data. Stormtroopers then overpower him, and K-2SO dies, permanently locking the door to the control room with Jyn and Cassian inside -- where Directory Krennic has spotted them. Outside in the battle, the rebels are able to take down several AT-AT's, and Bodhi manages to find a way to the control switch to turn on communications. He is unable to turn the switch on during the battle, so Chirrut takes a risk and walks over to the switch and turns it on. He is, however, shot on the way back and dies in Baze's arms, telling him that he will always be one with the force. In the data storage area, Jyn and Cassian do some dangerous jumping and climbing to grab the cassette holding the Stardust file, but they're intercepted by Director Krennic. Although they take out the Stormtroopers and shoot Krennic, the wounded Krennic shoots Cassian, while Jyn narrowly escapes. While this is happening, Bodhi gets communications working and notifies the fleet that the force field has be be disabled for the information to be transmitted. He is killed by a grenade bomb thrown by a Stormtrooper as he finishes. Baze is inspired by Chirrut's sacrifice and fights until he is also killed by a grenade bomb held in the hands of a fallen Stormtrooper. Jyn finally makes her way to the top of the tower and sees the command console for transmitting data to the rebels. The console prompts her to re-calibrate the antenna, and she does, not knowing that Krennic is headed up. The tower is hit by shots from a duel between rebel and empire fighters and Jyn nearly falls off. Jyn tries to send the data but is intercepted by Krennic. He claims that she will die and her rebellion will die with her but a surprisingly alive (though heavily injured) Cassian appears and shoots Krennic, who falls. The rebel fleet destroys the force field gate, which is the last piece of the puzzle -- everything is now in place to allow the transmission of the plans to the Rebel fleet. Jyn starts the transmission. While this is happening, Governor Tarkin watches the carnage from the space battle and aims the Death Star at the base on Scarif. While Scarif is about to be destroyed, the Rebel fleet retreats to note the sacrifice of the Rogue One. Jyn and Cassian, having transmitted the plans, hold hands and embrace on a beach as the Death Star obliterates them and the facility. Darth Vader boards a Rebel ship and mows down scores of Rebel fighters with his light-saber as he chases the memory card containing the Death Star plans through the Rebel flagship, arriving at the final hatch just in time to see Princess Leia's ship un-dock and escape. Inside Leia's ship, a partly CGI Leia is asked what the plans mean and she answers, "Hope," signaling the start of the first Star Wars film...  'A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away... 'It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic Empire. During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the DeathStar, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet. Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy.' Following the opening crawl, the frame moves down in the star field and we see a pitched battle between two starships in orbit around the desert planet of Tatooine. A small Rebel blockade runner, the Tantive IV, is being pursued by a mammoth Imperial star destroyer, the Devastator. Inside, protocol droid C-3PO and utility droid R2-D2 are tossed about as their ship endures a barrage of laser bolts, and "3PO" concludes that escaping capture will be impossible. The Rebel ship is so heavily damaged that its main power reactor must be shut down. It is caught in the Imperial destroyer's tractor beam, pulled into the hold of the larger ship, and boarded by stormtroopers from the Empire's 501st Legion. A huge firefight ensues in the corridors of the Rebel ship, with many Rebel soldiers being lost in the battle. When the smoke clears, Darth Vader, a man dressed in a black cape, black armor, and a black helmet that obscures all his features, briefly surveys the damage before interrogating the ship's captain, who claims that the ship is on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan. Vader perceives that he is lying, noting that a consular ship would have an ambassador on board. (In actuality there is a diplomat aboard &mdash; Princess Leia Organa, but she is hiding from Vader, the second-ranking man in the Empire, which tends to support Vader's thesis that somebody on this ship is up to something.) Upon learning that "the plans" were not downloaded into the ship's computer, Vader strangles the captain. He then tells the troops to search the entire ship and to bring all the passengers to him &mdash; alive. C-3PO and R2-D2 manage to escape damage from the firefight. R2-D2 meets up with Princess Leia, who loads him with the stolen plans and records a holographic message for the small droid to take to the planet's surface. R2-D2 and C-3PO get away from the ship aboard an escape pod and go to the planet below; Imperial troops choose not to destroy the pod, as their scans detect no living organism on board, and presume it ejected due to a malfunction. Moments later the princess is stunned by Imperial troops and taken to Vader. He tells her that the Rebels have stolen some secret Imperial plans and transmitted them to her ship. She feigns ignorance and protests to Vader that she is a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan, but Vader doesn't believe her and orders her taken away. Vader's adjutant aide, Commander Jir, insists that holding her captive is dangerous; news of her captivity would generate sympathy for the rebellion against the Empire. Vader instructs Jir to deceive the Senate and permanently erase any trace of Leia's whereabouts by faking her [accidental] death. Upon being notified by another officer that an empty escape pod was jettisoned during the firefight, he concludes that the Princess hid the stolen plans in the pod. C-3PO and R2-D2 land on the desert planet; R2-D2 mentions a mission to deliver some plans, but C-3PO is more concerned with staying in one piece long enough to find civilization. The two split up, and both are eventually captured by a group of diminutive scavengers called Jawas. The Jawas are junk traders, and R2-D2 and C-3PO are their newest assets. Meanwhile, a unit of Imperial Sandtroopers find the crashed pod and discover droid parts and tracks leading away from the crash site. The Jawas travel to the Great Chott Salt Flat settlement to sell droids and equipment to local homesteaders, eventually arriving at the homestead of Owen Lars, a moisture farmer. The farmer purchases C-3PO for his translation skills, as he is fluent in six million forms of communication, but initially decides to buy a cheaper utility droid, R5-D4, which breaks down almost immediately after purchase. Eager to deflect accusations of selling shoddy merchandise, the Jawas offer R2 as a replacement. Owen accepts and tells his young nephew, Luke Skywalker, to clean them up and put them to work. Luke had plans to meet some friends in the nearby town of Anchorhead, but his plans are put aside for work. During the cleanup, Luke stumbles across a short clip of the message stored in R2 by Princess Leia. The message is for someone named 'Obi-Wan Kenobi', and is a desperate plea for help. R2 insists that the message is simply a malfunction ("old data"), but Luke insists on hearing the complete message, intrigued by Leia's beauty. R2 then states that if Luke removes his restraining bolt, he might be able to play the rest of the message. Luke removes the bolt, but R2 doesn't play the message and claims not to know what Luke is talking about. Luke is called away for dinner (forgetting to replace the bolt, which will keep R2 within the boundaries of the moisture farm) and asks C-3PO to finish cleaning R2. During dinner, Luke tells his aunt and uncle that the droids may belong to someone called Obi-Wan Kenobi. This news greatly disturbs Uncle Owen, but he won't say why. Luke asks if Obi-Wan is possibly related to a hermit named Ben Kenobi who lives several miles away in the Dune Sea area, a vast terrain of sand and rocky canyons. Owen claims that Ben is "just a crazy old man," and that Obi-Wan is dead; Owen makes a comment which seems to indicate that Obi-Wan Kenobi knew Luke's long-deceased father, Anakin, but when Luke presses Owen for details, his uncle quickly changes the subject and instructs Luke to erase the droids' memories the next morning. Luke &mdash; who hopes to leave home for training at a nearby Imperial Military Academy to become a space pilot &mdash; leaves the room angrily to return to cleaning the droids. Luke's Aunt Beru tells Owen that Luke is too much like his father to remain with them, but Owen holds out hope that Luke's desire for adventure will subside &mdash; and expresses a fear that Luke is too much like his father... suggesting that Owen may know something of Anakin's terrible past. After dinner, Luke discovers that R2-D2 has escaped to find Obi-Wan Kenobi. Luke tells 3PO that it's too late to look for R2 because of the dangerous Sand People (also called Tusken Raiders) in the area, and that they will set out first thing in the morning to go look for him (hopefully before Owen discovers that due to Luke's negligence, his newest investment has disappeared). The following morning, Luke and 3PO set out in Luke's landspeeder to find R2. They locate him on the scanner and catch up with him. As soon as they find him, R2 informs them that his own scanner is picking up several creatures closing in on them. Luke fears the Sand People have found them, and confirms it using a set of minoculars. One ambushes them, hitting Luke over the head and knocking him unconscious. C-3PO goes tumbling down the side of a sand dune. R2 runs and hides. After stealing some parts off of Luke's speeder, the Sand People are frightened away by the sound of a vicious beast. The sound comes from a mysterious hooded figure. The figure checks on Luke and takes his hood off to reveal his features. He is an old, bearded man, who gently touches Luke's forehead. Luke quickly comes to and recognizes the man as Ben Kenobi. Luke tells the man that his droid claims to belong to an Obi-Wan Kenobi. This knowledge startles the old man, who reveals (with a look of ancient mystery on his face) that he is Obi-Wan Kenobi but that he hasn't gone by that name in many years. After rescuing C-3PO, they go to Obi-Wan's home to discuss the matter. At Obi-Wan's home, Luke learns that Obi-Wan knew Anakin and that they were both Jedi Knights of the Old Republic. Luke had been told by his uncle that his father was a navigator on a spice freighter; Owen had been trying to protect Luke from the truth about his father, or perhaps simply trying to keep him safe. (Note: it's not clear that Owen knows the truth about Luke's father, other than that he was killed in a dangerous line of duty). Obi-Wan then produces Anakin's lightsaber, an energy sword which was the chosen weapon of the Jedi Knights; he seems to have kept it safe for some time. He gives the weapon to Luke, saying that Anakin wanted him to have it when he was old enough, but Owen would have none of it. Obi-Wan explains that a Jedi receives his power from the Force, an energy field that is created by all living beings that "surrounds us, penetrates us, and binds the galaxy together." But there is also a Dark Side to the Force, which draws power from negative emotions and baser impulses. A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was once a pupil of Obi-Wan, was seduced by this Dark Side. Vader betrayed and murdered Anakin, then became the Dark Lord of the Sith, the most feared enforcer of the Emperor. In this capacity, he proceeded to hunt down his former comrades, and the Jedi Order is now all but extinct. At this point Obi-Wan has R2 play Princess Leia's complete message. The princess reminds Obi-Wan of his past service to her father in the Clone Wars, and conveys his plea to assist in the Rebellion against the Empire. She senses that her mission to bring Obi-Wan to Alderaan has failed, and tells Obi-Wan that she has embedded information crucial to the rebellion in R2's memory banks. She asks Obi-Wan to deliver the droid to her father on Alderaan so that the information can be retrieved, and repeats her plea that he is now her "only hope." Obi-Wan cannot hope to undertake such a mission alone due to his advanced age, so he tells Luke that he should learn the ways of the Force and accompany him to Alderaan. Luke is adamant that he can't go, and that he must stay on Tatooine and help his uncle. Obi-Wan counters that the Rebellion needs Luke's help, and that the young woman in the message needs Luke's help (though she has not mentioned any personal request for help). They decide to go to the city of Anchorhead so that Obi-Wan can book a transport to Mos Eisely space port. Meanwhile, the Devastator has docked at the Death Star, a gargantuan space station resembling a small moon. Vader rendezvous with Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin, governor of the Imperial Outland Regions, and they enter a conference room where they meet the station's Command Triumvirate: Admiral Antonio Motti, High General Cassio Tagge, and Chief Officer Mordramin Bast. As the Triumvirs argue about the best way to exploit their newest "technological terror," Tarkin tells them that the Emperor has decided to dissolve the Imperial Senate and use the Death Star to intimidate all of the Empire's star systems into submission, suggesting that fear of force is preferable to its actual use. Motti is extremely confident in the new space station, calling it 'the ultimate power in the universe.' However, Tagge is adamant that the Death Star is not invincible, and that the Rebels will figure this out if they have a chance to read its schematics. Vader tells them that the ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force. Motti callously mocks Vader's Jedi heritage, noting that the Force has not helped him recover the stolen schematics or pinpoint the Rebellion's headquarters. Angered, Vader uses the Force to strangle Motti, until Tarkin orders him to stand down. The commanders decide to focus on interrogating Leia until she gives up the location of the Rebel Headquarters. They will then use the Death Star to destroy it, killing two birds with one stone. As Luke and his companions travel to Anchorhead, they find the Jawa sandcrawler, completely destroyed with all the Jawas slaughtered; although they appear to be victims of the Sand People, Obi-Wan recognizes signs which indicate an attack by Imperial stormtroopers. Luke realizes that the only reason Imperial troops would kill Jawas is because they are looking for the droids which escaped the battle, and he races home, over Obi-Wan's objections that he is likely endangering his own life, hoping to warn Owen and Beru. However, Luke is too late. The Imperials have apparently come and gone, burned the homestead, and killed his aunt and uncle. Luke returns to Obi-Wan (who has used the opportunity afforded by Luke's trip to accord the massacred Jawas some measure of dignity), saying that with no reason to remain, he wants to go with him to Alderaan. More importantly, he declares his wish to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like his father once was. As they approach Anchorhead, Obi-Wan warns Luke and the droids that Mos Eisley is a hotbed of crime and near-lawlessness. Luke assures Obi-Wan that he knows how to handle himself in a fight. Upon entering the spaceport they are approached by Imperial troops at a roadblock asking questions about the two droids they have with them. Obi-Wan appears to induce a trance-like state in the lead guard, persuading him that these are not the droids they are looking for. When Luke is puzzled by the ease of their passage, Obi-Wan explains that the Force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. At the Mos Eisley Cantina, Luke gets into a scuffle with two criminals who threaten to kill him. When one of the creatures pulls a gun on Kenobi, the old Jedi Knight defends himself with his lightsaber &mdash; slashing off the creature's gun arm before it can shoot. Moments later they meet smuggler Han Solo, captain of the Millennium Falcon, and his first mate, Chewbacca, a 7-foot-tall, 200-year-old Wookiee. Upon learning that Obi-Wan and Luke are trying to avoid Imperial capture, Captain Solo gives his price as 10,000 credits for the trip. Luke balks at that price, stating that they could almost buy their own ship for that, but Han is dubious that they could fly it themselves. Obi-Wan tells Solo that they will pay him 2,000 credits now and 15,000 more once they reach Alderaan. Han agrees. After Luke and Obi-Wan leave, Han tells Chewbacca that 17,000 credits could really save his neck. As Chewbacca leaves to make pre-flight preparations, Han hangs back to take care of their bar tab, and is stopped by Greedo, a bounty hunter working for feared crimelord Jabba Desilijic Tiure. Jabba had hired Han to transport a shipment of glitterstim spice (an illegal narcotic), but Han had to dump the shipment due to an unexpected Imperial boarding. As Greedo points a blaster pistol at Solo and forces him toward a secluded section of the bar, Han insists that he has the 8,000 credits he needs to cover the loss. Greedo suggests that Solo give it to him as a bribe not to turn him over to Jabba, forcing Han to admit that he doesn't actually have the money yet. Realizing that Greedo will either turn him over to Jabba or kill him for the bounty that Jabba has placed on him, Solo quietly removes his heavy pistol under the table, and when Greedo admits that he would just as soon see him dead as alive, Solo pre-emptively fires and kills him. On his way out, Han throws the bartender a few coins, apologizing for "the mess" he left. At the docking bay, Han is confronted by Jabba the Hutt and several other associates. Jabba expresses frustration over Greedo's death, and reminds Han of the nature of their business; he cannot "make any exceptions" of those who fail or cross him, lest he appear weak. Han insists that he will soon have enough money to pay off his debt, with interest, he just needs more time. Jabba reluctantly agrees, but warns Han that this is his last chance. Luke sells his landspeeder to raise money for their initial payment to Captain Solo. They head to the docking bay where the Millennium Falcon is being prepared for flight. Luke is somewhat perturbed to discover that the Falcon is a 60-year-old, run-down YT-1300 freighter, but Han assures him that he has made extensive modifications to ensure that she can run rings around any modern capital ship. Meanwhile, Imperial troops believe they are hot on the trail of the two droids when a local informant tells them the whereabouts of the fugitives after recognizing Luke and Obi-Wan. No sooner do Luke, Obi-Wan and the droids board the Millennium Falcon than the Imperial troops come running into the docking bay, hoping to arrest Luke and Obi-Wan and capture the droids. The troops fire at Solo and the Falcon, but the ship manages to escape. Once they clear the planet, they are immediately pursued by two huge Imperial star destroyers. Solo remarks that his passengers must be of particular interest to the Empire. They jump to light speed, escaping the Imperial ships. Princess Leia has been tortured by the Imperials and undergone a mind probe in an effort to extract the location of the Rebels' home base. They have found nothing. Tarkin, Vader, and Motti shift tactics, threatening to destroy the Princess's home planet of Alderaan if she won't reveal the Rebels' location. She reluctantly tells them that the Rebel base is on the planet Dantooine. Tarkin then orders his officers to proceed with Alderaan's destruction, noting that Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration of the Death Star's power. Alderaan is destroyed by a single blast from the Death Star's enormously powerful laser blaster while Leia is forced to watch. On board the Millennium Falcon, Obi-Wan is training Luke in the ways of the Force when he is greatly disturbed by a tremor in the Force. He feels that millions of people have died in an instant amidst great suffering, though he doesn't know how. He decides to meditate on this further as Luke continues an exercise in allowing the Force to guide his reflexes. Han is not impressed, and explains that he does not believe in the Force. Luke, however, manages to use his lightsaber to deflect four laser bolts in a row from a remote droid &mdash; all while wearing a helmet which covers his eyes. Back on the Death Star, Tarkin and Vader receive a report that there once was indeed a Rebel base on Dantooine but it has long since been abandoned. Outraged at Leia's successful trickery, Tarkin orders her scheduled for execution. Luke realizes that he is learning how to sense the Force. One of the Falcon's signals informs them that they are approaching Alderaan, but upon exiting light speed, they find the Millennium Falcon is in an asteroid field instead of Alderaan's orbit. Han confirms that they are in the right location but that the planet is missing; Obi-Wan quietly states that the planet has been destroyed by the Empire, but Solo laughingly insists that all the Empire's ships combined wouldn't have enough firepower to destroy a planet. Moments later they are overflown by an Imperial Twin Ion Engine (TIE) snubfighter. Obi-Wan concludes it is too small for long range flight, so there must be an Imperial base nearby. As they chase after the fighter to keep it from notifying the Empire of their location, they see the fighter heading toward a small moon &mdash; the Death Star. They are caught in the Death Star's tractor beam and, helpless to resist, are pulled aboard the station into a docking bay. Obi-Wan tells them that neither fighting or surrender are viable choices, but a third option is available to them. Imperial troops board the Falcon, but its crew are hiding in smuggling compartments below the floor. Vader orders scanning equipment to be brought aboard to look for life signs. While standing near the Falcon, he senses a presence he has not felt for some time. Vader leaves the hangar, pursued by the frustrating sense he is overlooking something of great importance. When a scanning teams boards the Falcon to set up their equipment, Luke and Solo manages to overpower them and lures the two guarding stormtroopers just outside on board as well to kill them both and steal their armor uniforms. The helmets conceal their identity and allow them to infiltrate a troop command center outside the docking port. Inside the command center, R2 plugs into the station computer system and discovers the location of the tractor beam generator. Obi-Wan sets out to shut down the generator so that the ship can leave. Luke wants to accompany him, but Obi-Wan orders Luke to stay, noting that Luke's destiny now splits paths from his own. Perhaps sensing that this is the last time he will see Luke in this reality, he tells Luke, "The Force will be with you... always." After Obi-Wan leaves, R2 discovers that the princess is being held prisoner on board the station. Luke suddenly takes the initiative, sparing no effort to convince Solo and Chewbacca to assist him in what is surely going to be a very risky rescue. Han, initially scared for his own neck, eventually agrees, but only after Luke suggests that a great monetary reward would surely follow her rescue. Luke and Han take Chewbacca "captive" and assume their trooper identities in order to infiltrate the prison block. In the prison block, the officer in command becomes suspicious of their arrival since he was not notified. As a result, Luke and Han's escorted "prisoner" escapes and a firefight erupts between the Imperials and Luke, Han, and Chewbacca. They manage to take out all the Imperials, but set off an alarm in the process. A squad of troops are sent to investigate. Han and Luke know they have only moments to find the princess's cell and escape. They find the princess, but the arriving troops cut off the only escape route. Leia shoots a hole in a garbage chute and tells everyone to dive in. They escape the Imperials, only to find themselves trapped in a large garbage compactor. To make matters worse, the compactor also houses a large, serpent-like creature &mdash; the dianoga &mdash; which yanks Luke under the murky, stagnant water in the compactor, almost drowning him. The creature inexplicably lets Luke go, but just as they catch their breath, the compactor activates and the walls begin to move in, threatening to crush Han, Luke, Leia, and Chewbacca. Luke calls 3PO on the communicator and orders him to have R2 shut down all garbage compactors in the detention level. R2 complies just in time to save them and then open their compactor's door to let them out. Meanwhile, Vader informs Tarkin that he senses through the Force that Kenobi is aboard the station. Tarkin is doubtful, but the discussion is soon interrupted by an emergency report: Princess Leia has escaped! Vader tells a shocked and bewildered Tarkin the true explanation for Leia's impossible escape &mdash; "Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with him." Sensing that Obi-Wan wishes a final showdown, Vader sets off to find him. Unbeknownst to anyone, Kenobi has deactivated the tractor beam generator. After their escape from the compactor, Luke and Han dispose of their stormtrooper armor, but keep the troopers' utility belts and weapons. On their way back to the ship they're cut off by more troops. They are split up, with Han and Chewbacca fighting together and Luke and Leia running on their own. After being cornered between a great air shaft and a group of troopers, Luke shoots a blast door's controls with his blaster, locking the troops on the other side of the door. Unfortunately, the blast also destroys the controls that extend the bridge across the air shaft. After a gunfight with stormtroopers on the other side of the shaft, Luke uses a cable and grappling hook from his freshly confiscated Imperial utility belt to swing himself and Leia safely across the gorge. Obi-Wan, on his way back to the Falcon, encounters Vader. They exchange barbed comments. Vader boasts to his former master that he is so much more experienced and powerful than he was the last time they met that the tables have now turned, with Vader the more powerful of the two. Obi-Wan replies that Vader's turn to evil has made him oblivious to the Force's true power. A ferocious lightsaber duel ensues. Luke, Leia, Han and Chewbacca meet at the entrance to the docking bay. The lightsaber duel on the other side of the bay distracts the troops guarding the ship, allowing the four of them, along with R2 and 3PO, to sneak across to board the Falcon. As Kenobi and Vader continue to fight, Kenobi informs Vader that if Vader strikes him down, he shall become even more powerful, beyond what Vader could possibly imagine. Kenobi, seeing that the four heroes and two droids are safely boarding the Falcon, takes one last look from his comrade's son to the man who betrayed him, and smilingly withdraws his saber, allowing Vader to slice through him. His body instantly disappears. Vader is stunned and confused by this, as he determines that no one is in Kenobi's now-empty cloak on the floor. Luke, appalled by the sight of his mentor being struck down by Vader, lets out a shout of horror, alerting all of the troops to their presence. Another firefight immediately erupts, and they barely make it aboard the ship with their lives. Luke stays behind, attempting to shoot every Imperial soldier in the hangar, despite his friends urging him to join them on the ship so they can escape. Finally, he relents, hearing Obi-Wan's voice telling him to run, as Vader catches a glimpse of him through a rapidly closing set of blast doors. When the Falcon flies out of the docking bay, the Imperials are unable to activate the tractor beam, thanks to Kenobi. Having blasted their way out of the station's defense range, they are confronted by four Imperial TIE fighters. Luke and Han man two large gun turrets on the top and bottom of the Falcon and manage to destroy all four ships. Han starts to boast to Leia about his amazing abilities during her rescue. She insists that the Empire let them escape in order to track them to the Rebel base. Han is doubtful of that as she explains to Han that R2 is carrying the technical readouts to the Death Star. She has high hopes that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found in the station. Back aboard the station, Leia's fears are confirmed as Vader and Tarkin discuss their plan to track the Falcon to the hidden Rebel base. The Falcon makes it to the base, located on the fourth moon of the gas giant Yavin Prime. After R2's data is analyzed, it is determined that the Death Star does indeed have a weakness that can be exploited; a small exhaust port not protected by any shielding, through which a well-placed proton torpedo could reach the main reactor and destroy the station. The port is situated in a narrow trench protected by General ARea Defense Integration Anti-spacecraft Network (GARDIAN) turbo-lasers. The Rebel commander, General Dodonna, theorizes that since the GARDIAN array is designed to repel large scale assaults from capital ships, it could easily be outmaneuvered by smaller and faster snubfighters. A plan is devised in which a squadron of Y-Wing assault bombers (Gold Squadron, led by Captain Jon "Dutch" Vander), will skim the trench. A second squadron (Red Squadron, commanded by Captain Garven Dreis), comprised of the faster, more maneuverable X-Wing snubfighters, will attempt to draw enemy fire away from the bombers. Luke will be flying one of the X-Wings, under the callsign Red Five. Fellow pilot Wedge Antilles is skeptical about succeeding, but Luke is confident that the task can be accomplished, noting that he used to shoot at animal targets on Tatooine which were not much bigger than two meters. The Rebels set out to attack the Death Star just as the station enters the Yavin system. The Death Star will have to orbit to Yavin's far side in order to have a shot at the moon on which the base is located. The approximately 30 Rebel fighters have less than 30 minutes to fly to the station and destroy it. As Luke heads to the hanger, he is reunited with Biggs Darklighter, who used to fly with Luke on Tatooine. Biggs congratulates Luke on finally making it off Tatooine and tells him that the coming battle will be just like old times. Having apparently collected the balance of his 17,000 credits payment for delivering the plans to the Rebellion (plus some unspecified reward for helping Leia escape from the Death Star), Han refuses to join the fight, stating that his reward will be useless if he is killed, and that he would rather take his money and go pay off his debts. Luke is disappointed, but boards his fighter and takes off, right after R2 is loaded into the rear of the fighter to provide technical assistance. Upon departure, he hears what sounds like Obi-Wan's voice speaking to him, saying "The Force will be with you." He quickly dismisses it. Both squadrons approach the Death Star and Wedge Antilles briefly marvels at its size before Captain Dreis cuts off the idle chatter and orders the squadrons to attack speed. Red Squadron initiates a strafing run on the station's surface to divert attention from the bombers, and Luke makes a run that detonates a mammoth fire within part of the Death Star &mdash; a fire so large his own ship suffers minor burns. When Vader is informed that the GARDIAN turbo-lasers are having trouble targeting the small rebel ships, he orders fighters led by Black Squadron, his personal elite TIE fighter squadron, to engage the X-Wings individually. In short order, six TIE fighters join the battle, soon followed by others, and Red Squadron scrambles to keep them away from the trenches. Dreis warns a wingman of an attacking TIE fighter but the X-Wing is immediately shot down before Biggs himself comes under attack; Luke swings behind the attacker and shoots him down. Vader notices Dutch and his Y-Wing group breaking away from the primary attack. He assigns two Black Squadron pilots, Mauler and Backstabber, to escort him as he boards a TIE Advanced x1 fighter to engage the bombers himself. Before this command group launches, the sky battle rages on and Luke himself comes under attack; Wedge rescues him by shooting into the belligerent TIE fighter literally nose to nose, just as Dutch and Gold Squadron commence the attack into the trenches. Vader and his two wingmen easily outmaneuver the Y-Wings, methodically dispatching them one by one; first pilot Tyree is killed, as Dutch begins to panic despite angry urging by his surviving wingman. Dutch is then killed and the surviving Gold Squadron ship aborts his run before he himself is destroyed. With Gold Squadron effectively wiped out, Dreis orders the surviving X-Wing pilots to start a second attack run down the trench. As they approach the exhaust port, Dreis turns on his targeting computer as two other ships cover his tail from enemy fire. The escorting ships are destroyed, but they buy enough time for Dreis to take a shot at the exhaust port. His shot misses and merely impacts on the surface. Moments later he loses an engine to Vader's gunnery and his fighter spirals into the surface of the station. Now nominally in charge of Red Squadron, Luke decides that it is his responsibility to try to destroy the port. R2 is preoccupied trying to keep the ship running, despite all of the damage they are sustaining. With Biggs and Wedge flying his wing, they start down the trench. Moments later, they are pursued by Vader and his wingmen, who partially disable Wedge's ship. Luke tells Wedge to disengage, seeing that he can't be of any help in a crippled ship. Vader allows Wedge to withdraw, ordering his men to continue to pursue the two ships in the trench. Vader fires again, hitting Biggs' ship and destroying it. Luke is grieved by the loss of his friend, but presses on. As Luke gets closer to his target, he hears the voice of Obi-Wan, telling him to "use the Force" and rely on his instincts more than the technology in his ship. Heeding that advice, Luke switches off his targeting computer and continues flying down the trench. When asked by Mission Control why he switched off the computer, Luke responds that nothing is wrong. Meanwhile, the Death Star has completed its run around Yavin and is cleared to fire on the Rebel moon. The countdown for the firing sequence begins. Bast tells Tarkin that he has analyzed the attack and concludes there is a real threat to the station. Tarkin scoffs at evacuation and insists the Empire will prevail. He remains on the station while some of the Imperial officers and troops evacuate as a precaution. As Luke draws on the power of the Force to help him hit his target, Vader senses the strength of the Force in his prey. He takes a shot, which misses the ship but hits R2-D2. Just as he locks on to Luke's ship to finish him off, Backstabber's ship explodes unexpectedly. Out of nowhere appears the Millennium Falcon, which has just destroyed the Imperial fighter &mdash; diving vertically towards Vader and the remaining wingman. This sudden turn of events distracts Mauler; he loses control of his ship and crashes into Vader's. Mauler's ship ricochets into the trench wall, destroying it, and sends Vader's ship spinning out of control, up and away from the Death Star. Han informs Luke that he is all clear to fire. Luke, having drawn upon the power of the Force, releases his proton torpedoes, which enter the exhaust port perfectly on target. Luke, the Falcon and a few other fighters race away from the Death Star just as the Death Star prepares to fire on the moon. Only seconds before the station fires, it explodes into a huge fireball, sending millions of fragments into space. Tarkin, Motti, Tagge, and most of the senior Imperial staff are killed. With that triumph, Kenobi reminds Luke that the Force will be with him, always. Vader, having been thrown into space during his collision with the wingman, is now apparently the only one to have escaped the station's destruction. He eventually manages to regain control of his wildly gyrating fighter, and when he finally stabilizes, he flies off to meet the Imperial Fleet as the Rebels head home to their base. When they reach the base, Luke is clearly delighted that Han returned to help him. Leia is thrilled to see both of her friends alive. And everyone is ecstatic that the Death Star has been destroyed. Their celebration is briefly interrupted as R2 is pulled from Luke's ship. He is heavily damaged from Vader's gunfire and does not respond to C-3PO. The golden robot is terribly concerned, but Luke and two mechanics assure him that R2 is repairable and will be fine. Later, an awards ceremony is held in a huge hall. Hundreds of Rebel soldiers, officers, and pilots are present. A door at the rear of the hall opens to reveal Luke, Han, and Chewbacca. They walk down the aisle to where Leia awaits, along with several Rebel leaders and dignitaries. Also present are a freshly polished C-3PO and a freshly overhauled and looking better-than-new R2-D2. Upon reaching the front of the great hall, Luke and Han are awarded medals for bravery by a smiling Princess Leia. The hall erupts into thunderous applause. After the destruction of the Death Star, the Rebels were forced to evacuate their base on the Yavin moon and the dreaded Imperial Fleet of the Galactic Empire has pursued the Rebel Alliance across the galaxy, forcing them to establish a secret base on the remote ice planet Hoth. Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Vader (David Prowse/voice: James Earl Jones) sends robotic probes in search of the base and its commander and hero, Luke Skywalker. While Luke is patrolling near Echo Base, he sees what looks like a meteor hitting the ground near his location. He reports to Han Solo that he plans to investigate the fallen object but before he can ride his mount to the site, he's knocked unconscious by an indigenous, polar bear-like predator, the wampa. Back at the base, the smuggler-pilot Han Solo announces his intention to leave the Rebels and pay the debt he owes to the gangster Jabba the Hutt, much to the displeasure of Princess Leia. After Han discovers that Luke has not returned from patrol and with the temperature dropping rapidly, he delays his departure and leaves the base to search for him on an ostrich-like creature called a tauntaun. Meanwhile, Luke escapes the wampa's lair, using the Force to retrieve his nearby light saber and wounding the beast, but is overcome by the cold outside. He sees an apparition of his late mentor, Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, who instructs him to receive training from Jedi Master Yoda (voice: Frank Oz) on the planet Dagobah. Han finds Luke and gives him shelter, using his own tauntaun's carcass to keep Luke warm, until he can build a sturdier shelter. The two are rescued the following morning by a Rebel patrol. Luke is taken to the medical bay to heal from the wounds he received from the Wampa. In his recovery room he's met by Leia, Han and Chewbacca. Han jovially reminds Luke that he's rescued him twice from certain danger. Sometime later, when ground scans detect an object outside the base perimeter at Zone 12, Han and Chewie, investigate, and find an Imperial probe droid that transmits the location of the Rebel base to the Imperial fleet before firing upon Chewie. Han hits the droid with a low-energy blast but the droid activates a self-destruct function and explodes. On the bridge of Darth Vader's massive flagship, the droid's transmission is picked up by Captain Piett, but his superior, fleet Admiral Ozzel, dismisses the message until Vader sees the transmission and realizes it is the Rebel base. He overrules Ozzel and orders the Imperial Fleet to the Hoth system. Later, as the Fleet emerges from hyperspace, Vader is informed by his infantry commander, General Veers, that the Rebels have set up infantry trenches and a powerful energy shield to protect them from the Empire's orbital bombardment. Ordering Veers to launch a surface attack, Vader is furious that Ozzel has clumsily given away the element of surprise by bringing his ship out of light speed too close to the planet, and he communicates this displeasure to Captain Piett as he promotes him to admiral while Ozzel is given Vader's own fatal brand of reprimand. On the surface, the Imperial forces land their ground assault troops, a unit of over a dozen four-legged AT-AT "walkers" (along with a few dozen two-legged AT-ST walkers) beyond the energy shield and Luke leads his squadron of flying speeders into battle. Realizing that their blasters cannot damage the heavily armored walkers, Luke devises an attack plan that has his squad using their towing cables to bind the legs of the walkers to trip them, making them more vulnerable. A few walkers are destroyed but the Imperial forces eventually overpower the Rebels and destroy the generator powering the energy shield, capturing the Rebel base. Han Solo, Princess Leia, Chewbacca, and their droid C-3PO flee on board the Millennium Falcon. Luke makes it back to the base after personally destroying one of the walkers and speeds off in his X-Wing fighter with astromech droid R2-D2. In space, Han discovers that the Falcon's hyper-drive is damaged and it cannot escape the Imperial blockade in space. During the confusion, they enter the nearby Hoth asteroid field, pursued by four Imperial TIE-Fighters; Han Solo pilots the Millennium Falcon deeper into the field, and the four pursuing fighters are destroyed by the flying rocks. Han lands the Falcon inside a crater on one of the larger asteroids to hide and make repairs. Meanwhile, Luke and R2-D2 make a crash landing on the swamp planet of Dagobah. Luke meets a wizened, green little creature who acts obnoxiously, demanding to keep a small power lamp of Luke's and criticizes the rations Luke eats. Telling Luke that he knows where to find Yoda, Luke goes to his small house to eat. While there, Luke quickly grows impatient, wanting to meet Yoda immediately. The small creature begins to talk to the spirit of Obi-Wan, saying that Luke is too old to begin Jedi training and that he hasn't learned the patience a Jedi requires. Luke realizes that the creature is Yoda himself. Yoda insists that Luke harbors much anger like his father, Anakin. Obi-Wan assures Yoda that Luke will learn patience and will complete his training. Luke tells Yoda that he is not afraid, to which Yoda gravely replies, "You will be." The Star Destroyer 'Avenger' moves through the massive asteroid field, searching for the Millennium Falcon. A group of TIE Bombers moves across the massive asteroid where the Falcon is hiding, and they release high-yield concussion bombs on the surface, trying to scare out the Falcon. The noise awakens Leia, who has fallen asleep in the cockpit. Inside the asteroid cave, Han Solo and Princess Leia argue while repairing the ship, eventually leading to a tender kiss. At the same time, Vader orders the Star Destroyer 'Avenger' to search the asteroid field for the Falcon, despite it's captain's assumptions that the ship was destroyed. Vader later confers with his boss, the powerful Galactic Emperor Palpatine, about a new threat to the Empire - Luke Skywalker. Darth Vader suggests that if Luke could be turned, he would become a great ally to the Imperial cause. The Emperor asks, 'Can it be done?'; Vader simply replies, 'He will join us, or die, my Master'. The crew of the Falcon, after getting rid of some annoying Mynocks, discover a frightening truth; what they thought was a cave is actually the esophagus of a gigantic space slug. In space once again, they are chased by a Star Destroyer, but Han evades pursuit cleverly and stealthily: after soaring into an attack position, he flies directly over the bridge of the star destroyer and hides the Falcon on the massive ship's surface, attaching to it with the Falcon's landing claws. They go undetected while Han figures out an escape plan. He surmises that the fleet will dump their refuse before jumping to hyperspace and they can float away unnoticed. Han checks his navigational log and realizes he's been in the area before and that a planet called Bespin is nearby and that they'll find one of his old smuggling buddies there who will offer them refuge. On the bridge of the Avenger, Darth Vader gathers a small group of intergalactic bounty hunters, the most feared of whom is Boba Fett. Vader promises them a large payoff if they can find the Millennium Falcon. Han's escape plan works and he sets course for Cloud City, a gas mining colony on the nearby gas planet of Bespin, which is run by Han's friend, Lando Calrissian. Following just behind him is a smaller ship, Slave I, piloted by Fett. On Dagobah, Luke undergoes Yoda's rigorous lessons about the metaphysical nature of the Force involving levitating objects, performing acrobatic feats and meditation to promote calm and see possible visions of the future. Yoda brings Luke to an old, gnarled tree that sits atop a cave. Yoda tells his apprentice that the cave is powerful with the dark side of the Force and that Luke must explore it. Somewhat distrusting of his master, Luke takes his light saber with him. Inside the cave, Luke encounters a vision of Darth Vader, whom he fights. Luke cuts off Vader's head with his light saber, but then the mask bursts open, revealing Luke's own face behind it. The cave is another test, one that carries a warning for Luke to control his impulses and anger or he'll end up like Vader himself. Luke has a vision of Han and Leia in danger and agony. Luke wants to rescue them, but Yoda and the ghost of Obi-Wan warn of the dangers of rashly leaving, because Luke is still susceptible to the powerful temptation of the Dark Side. Nevertheless, Luke departs from Dagobah and promises Yoda he will return to complete his training. Upon their arrival at Cloud City, Han's party is welcomed by Lando Calrissian. After agreeing to help Han repair his ship, Lando invites him and the others to a meal. C3PO is distracted from the group when he hears the familiar beeping of an R2 unit. Entering a small room, he is suddenly confronted by an unseen person why he's in the room. A laser blast cuts C3PO down as he babbles to his attackers. Only Chewbacca is suspicious, but he arrives on the scene too late to see what happened. When Han's party enter the dining room, they are captured by Darth Vader, along with Boba Fett who had tracked them to Cloud City. Lando insists he was forced to conspire with the Empire to prevent them from occupying (or likely destroying) the city. In captivity, Han is tortured to lure Luke to the city. Chewbacca is also tortured in his holding cell by an amplified screeching sound. As Vader prepares to wait for Luke to be lured to him by his friends' agony, he tells Lando that the rebels must never leave the city. Lando, disgusted by Vader's treatment of Han and his friends, protests that the deal they struck never included that as a condition any more than handing Han over to Boba Fett. However, when Vader threatens to leave a garrison in the city if Lando keeps complaining, Lando is forced to realize how helpless he is. Vader orders a carbon-freezing chamber prepared to freeze Luke, which will hold him in suspended animation for transport to the Emperor. The process is tested on Han Solo. As Han is lowered into the machine, Leia declares her love for him. He is frozen in carbonite and alive in hibernation and handed over to Fett, who intends to return his quarry to Jabba the Hutt for a large reward. Meanwhile, Luke lands at Cloud City and is lured into the carbon-freezing chamber. Luke meets Vader and a ferocious lightsaber fight ensues. While escorting their prisoners, Vader's Imperial troopers are captured by Lando's private security force, who set Lando and the others free. Lando, despite nearly being killed by a furious Chewbacca, insists that there is still a chance to save Han, and along the way they find R2-D2. The group pursues Boba Fett and Han's frozen form through Cloud City, but arrives just as the bounty hunter's ship flies away. After a desperate chase from Imperial troops, Leia, Chewbacca, Lando, and the two droids make their escape on the Millennium Falcon. As the Falcon leaves Cloud City, Luke is trapped on the bottom level of the carbon-freezing room. As he heads down a dark hallway Vader ambushes him, stepping out of a doorway and swinging his light saber down. Vader and Luke's fierce light saber duel brings them to a narrow platform above the city's central air shaft. The Dark Lord corners Luke on a catwalk, threatening him; 'You are beaten! It is useless to resist!' Luke resumes the fight; Vader suddenly cuts an instrument panel apart. As Luke unwittingly glances at it, Vader slashes off Luke's right hand at the wrist, disabling him and sending Luke's light saber tumbling into the huge shaft. With Luke cornered and defenseless, Vader informs Luke that he does not yet know the truth about his father. Luke claims that Vader killed him. Vader answers: "No, I am your father." Luke screams in denial. Vader tries to persuade Luke to join him, embrace the Dark Side of the Force, and overthrow the Emperor with him. Luke refuses, lets go, and falls off the platform into the abyss, signifying that he would rather die than join him. In free fall, Luke is sucked into an air vent, shoots out of the underbelly of the floating city, and lands on an antenna hanging beneath. Luke tries to pull himself back into the exhaust pipe, but with only one hand and no strength left, he is unable to pull himself up and the hatches close over his head, trapping him on the weather vane. He pleads for help from Ben, but the old Jedi Knight will not appear. Luke then attempts to reach out to Leia, using the Force. On the Millennium Falcon Leia senses Luke's distress through the Force and orders Lando to pilot them back to Cloud City -- Lando protests immediately but Chewbacca's roar convinces him to do so. As they approach the underside of the city, Lando spots Luke hanging on to the weather vane and opens the Falcon's outer hatch. Luke falls off the weather vane and Lando pulls him in just as the three TIE fighters from the 'Executor' appear, and start a rapid pursuit. As they leave Cloud City, they are pursued by Darth Vader's flagship. R2-D2, who discovered that the hyper-drive was merely deactivated while searching the city's central computer, reactivates it and the Falcon escapes into hyperspace. Aboard the flagship, Admiral Piett fears Vader will kill him for this failure, but the Sith Lord simply walks away silently. In the final scene, the fugitive and defeated rebel fleet has assembled in a point beyond the galaxy to decide their next move. Aboard a Rebel medical frigate, Luke is fitted with an artificial hand as Lando and Chewbacca set out in the Falcon to locate Han Solo with Luke arranging to join them when he is released from medical care. Luke and Leia watch the ship speed off toward the galaxy. The opening crawl reveals that Han Solo's friends are engaged in a mission to rescue the smuggler from Jabba the Hutt and that the Galactic Empire is building a new armored space station which is even larger and more powerful than the first Death Star. Near the forest moon of Endor the new Death Star is being constructed in orbit, and a command star destroyer arrives and launches a shuttle with a fighter escort -- a shuttle bearing the Dark Lord of the Sith. Fearing his arrival, the commander of the new Death Star informs Darth Vader (David Prowse, voice: James Earl Jones) that the station will be operational on schedule, but when Vader challenges this "optimistic" appraisal of the situation, the commander admits that he needs more men to accelerate construction. Darth Vader, however, informs the commander that the Emperor will be arriving soon, and that he is most displeased with the commander's progress. Shaken, the commander commits to redoubling construction efforts. Vader, pleased, remarks, "the Emperor is not as forgiving as I am." Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca, Lando Calrissian, Princess Leia Organa, C-3PO, and R2-D2 return to Tatooine to rescue Han Solo (who was encased in carbonit). Luke sends C-3PO and R2-D2 to Jabba's desert palace to deliver a message: In a hologram projected by R2, Luke offers to bargain with Jabba for Solo himself -- if Jabba does not, he will be destroyed. Jabba laughs at the message and refuses to give up his "favorite decoration:" Han, frozen in carbonite, hangs on a wall in Jabba's court. The two droids are sent to EV-9D9's workshop where C-3P0 is given the job of Jabba's translator and R2 will be a drink-server on Jabba's sail barge. Disguised as a bounty hunter named Boushh, Leia arrives in Jabba's court with Chewbacca in cuffs. She offers him to Jabba for a sizable bounty. After Leia dickers with Jabba over the amount and threatens him with a small thermal detonator, Jabba happily agrees to pay, impressed with the bounty hunter's nerve, and Chewbacca is imprisoned. That night, Leia sneaks into Jabba's court and frees Han from the carbonite. However, she and Solo are both captured by Jabba. Solo is imprisoned with Chewbacca and Jabba keeps Leia on display in a metal bikini and chains. Luke arrives with a final ultimatum to release Solo. Jabba again refuses and drops Luke through a trap door into a pit below his throne that houses the rancor, a fearsome beast that Jabba keeps for executions. As Leia watches in horror, she sees Lando Calrissian disguised as a palace guard. After a brief battle, Luke defeats the rancor, enraging Jabba, who declares that Luke, Solo and Chewbacca will be slowly consumed by the sarlacc -- a huge, shark-toothed, tentacled maw at the bottom of the Great Pit of Carkoon. The group is taken to the pit on Jabba's sail barge fleet, and Jabba sadistically attempts to draw out the spectacle by inviting them to grovel for their lives. Han and Chewbacca refuse, but Luke calmly notes to the gangster that he is about to pay dearly for his arrogance to Jabba's scoffing amusement. The group is prepared for execution: Luke is the first, pushed out onto a thin plank over the pit. Luke gives R2 a short salute and drops off the plank, only to spin and grab the plank to launch himself back on board. At that moment, R2 catapults a small object, Luke's new lightsaber, to the Jedi's hand. A battle erupts, with Luke steadily taking the fight to Jabba's men. During the battle, Leia strangles Jabba with the chain around her neck and with R2-D2's help escapes from her bonds. Solo accidentally knocks Boba Fett into the sarlacc pit. Lando is also thrown off one of the skiffs, hanging by a few cables until he's rescued from the sarlacc itself by Han and Chewbacca. Luke, having fought his way onto Jabba's sail barge, has the escaping Leia aim the deck cannon at the vehicle and sets it on automatic fire; the sail barge soon blows apart. Our heroes manage to escape before it explodes, retrieve R2 and C-3PO and zip off into the desert. Luke flies off Tatooine in his X-Wing fighter and the rest of the band fly away in the Millennium Falcon to rendezvous with the Rebel fleet near Sullust. A massive fleet of fighters completely surrounds the boarding bays of the Death Star at the arrival of the Emperor. As Red Guards slowly descend from the Imperial shuttle and flank its ramp, Vader and the Death Star commander kneel to their master, the last to enter the hangar. He insists that Lord Vader will soon capture Luke Skywalker, and Luke will learn of the dark side of the Force when brought before Palpatine himself. Luke returns to Dagobah to complete his Jedi training, but he finds Yoda (voice: Frank Oz) is ill. He tells Luke that no further training is required and all that remains to be done is to confront Darth Vader. Luke attempts to get independent confirmation of Darth Vader's claim to be Luke's father, but Yoda is evasive. Finally, Luke begs Yoda to tell him the truth, and Yoda, emotional torture clearly evident on his normally serene features, confirms Luke's darkest fears. He correctly infers that Vader has used this information as an emotional weapon against Luke, and criticizes Luke for having faced Vader prematurely, with nearly disastrous consequences. He reminds Luke of the true nature of the Force, and of the soul-corrupting nature of the dark side. Yoda then issues a dark warning, telling Luke how his father fell to the shadow: he was corrupted by the powers and influence of the Emperor. If Luke allows himself to be manipulated by this dark mind, then he too shall become what he most fears. Finally, Yoda charges Luke with keeping alive the teachings and knowledge of the Jedi and the Force, urging him to start with his own family, with whom the Force is unusually strong. With his final breath, Yoda tells Luke that there is "another Skywalker." Yoda dies at peace, and before Luke's astonished eyes, his body vanishes, passing with his spirit into the Force. The spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi confronts a distraught Luke, confirming that Vader was once Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi who was turned to the dark side of the Force. Obi-Wan confesses to Luke that he made mistakes in Anakin's training, especially by not deferring to Yoda, and takes responsibility for indirectly creating the evil Darth Vader. Luke counters that even now, all is not lost, that some part of Anakin remains, if only someone can reach it. When Luke asks about the other Skywalker, Obi-Wan tells him that Luke has a twin sister, hidden from Anakin and separated from Luke at birth to protect them both from the Emperor. Luke intuits that his sister is Princess Leia. Obi-Wan confirms it, but warns Luke that in the eyes of the Empire, all bonds of love and caring are potential weaknesses to be exploited. Meanwhile, the entire Rebel Alliance fleet is massing their near Sullust meeting to devise an attack strategy on the uncompleted Death Star. As part of the attack, Han and his companions must land on the forest moon of Endor and deactivate the generator that projects a protective shield up to the orbiting and incomplete Death Star. The team, led by Han, will use a stolen Imperial shuttle and confirmation code to infiltrate the heavy security measures protecting the construction site before the rest of the Rebel fleet arrives. Luke arrives at the meeting and tells Han and Leia that he'll join them on the dangerous commando mission. The fleet's assault on the Death Star will be lead by Lando Calrissian, piloting the Millennium Falcon, which will fly into the core of the space station and destroy the main power generator. The team arrives at Endor in the stolen shuttle and uses the confirmation code to sneak past the Imperial fleet. Luke senses that Vader is aboard the Imperial fleet's largest ship, the super-star destroyer Executor, and believes he's endangering the mission. Han tells him not to worry. When they arrive on the moon, the team happens across a small unit of Imperial biker scouts. Han tries to sneak up on the scouts to disarm them but draws their attention when he steps on a branch. Leia and Luke jump on speeder bikes and pursue two more scouts through the forest at high speed. They overtake them both but are separated; Leia's bike crashes into a tree after she jumps off and she falls unconscious. Luke jumps off his own bike and battles with the the scout he'd been pursuing, forcing him to crash using his lightsaber. When Luke rejoins the team, he finds that Leia hasn't returned. The team looks for her but is captured by indigenous creatures called Ewoks -- short, furry, intelligent forest dwellers. An Ewok called Wicket befriends Leia, but the other Ewoks who captured the rest of the Rebel party decide to sacrifice them to C-3P0, who they believe is a god. Luke, having mastered the Force, levitates C-3P0 to impress the Ewoks with the droid's power and scare them into giving up the sacrifice. With the help of C-3PO, Luke and his party form an alliance with the Ewoks, whose stone-age technology has unexpectedly effective military applications. Later, Luke decides that the time has come for him to face Vader. He confesses to Leia that he is her brother, and that he has to try to save the man who was once their father. She tells him to ignore his feelings and leave but Luke tells her that he must face his destiny and if necessary in the event that he falls, she must learn the ways of the Jedi to help oppose the Emperor. Luke surrenders peacefully to Vader but fails to convince his father to abandon the dark side even though Vader is left subtly shaken by his matured son's own mind games. They go to the Death Star to meet the Emperor, who reveals that the Rebel Alliance is walking into a trap. On the forest moon, the Rebels led by Solo and Leia enter the shield generator control facility only to be taken prisoner by a large legion of Imperial troops. Once they are led out of the bunker, however, the Ewoks spring a surprise counterattack. In a desperate ground battle, the Rebels and Ewoks fight the Imperial forces. Aboard the Death Star, the Emperor attempts to seduce Luke with the powers of the dark side. The Emperor reveals his plan: the information that Rebel spies had stolen was part of an elaborate plan to draw out the Rebel fleet and command so they could be eliminated in one battle. As Luke's anger builds he attacks the Emperor with his lightsaber, only to be stopped by Vader's crimson blade. During the strike team's assault, the Rebel fleet emerges from hyperspace for the battle over Endor, only to discover that the shield of the Death Star is still functioning. An intense space battle takes place as the Imperial fleet, in a second part of the Emperor's plan, appears and attacks the Rebel fleet. During the battle, the Death Star is revealed to be operational; its superlaser, revealed to be relatively rapid-fire on a low setting compared to its predecessor, is fired at the Rebel fleet and obliterates a Rebel star cruiser. Though Admiral Ackbar wants to abandon the attack, Lando convinces him that they must give Han and his party more time on Endor. The fleet regroups and begins to engage the Imperial fleet of star destroyers directly. On the Death Star, the Emperor taunts Luke to give in to his anger. A ferocious lightsaber duel has erupted between Luke and his father. In the midst of combat, Vader reads Luke's feelings and learns that Luke has a twin sister. When Vader toys with the notion of turning Leia to the dark side, Luke gives in to his rage and furiously gains the upper hand in the battle, slicing off Vader's right robotic hand in a rage in one swift cut, and makes his father succumb to defeat at the mercy of his son's blade. Despite the Emperor's goading Luke refuses to kill his father, realizing that he is traveling down his father's path towards the dark side, and declares himself a Jedi. Realizing that Luke cannot be turned, the Emperor uses Force lightning against him to torture and attempt to kill him. Deeply affected by the sight of his son dying before him, Vader repents and turns on the Emperor, throwing him down a reactor shaft to his death. At the same time, however, the Emperor's Force lightning causes fatal injuries to Vader (Anakin) and short-circuits his breathing system. Stopping momentarily in a landing bay, Anakin asks Luke to take his mask off, knowing that he'll die, but desiring to look at his son's face with his human eyes. Luke removes the helmet, revealing the pale and scarred face of his father. Anakin says that Luke was right about him, and asks Luke to tell his sister. With those final words, Anakin dies. Back on Endor, the strike team finally destroys the shield generator. The Rebel fleet seizes the opportunity to launch a final assault on the Death Star in space. Meanwhile to by the attackers more time, Admiral Ackbar orders a concentrated attack on the Imperial fleet's flagship, the Executor. With a crashing rebel pilot ramming into the ship's bridge, not only is Admiral Piett killed, but the ship goes out of control and collides with the Death Star. Lando leads Wedge Antilles and his fighter group into the bowels of the Death Star, where they fire at the main reactor, causing its collapse. Luke, with the body and armor of Anakin, escapes the Death Star in an Imperial shuttle. Moments later, Wedge in his X-Wing and Lando in the Millennium Falcon emerge from the Death Star just as the space station explodes.  On Endor, Han tries to reassure Leia that Luke was likely not on the destroyed station, but Leia already senses that is true. Guessing Leia's feelings for Luke, Han offers to step aside for him to court her. However, Leia reassures Han Solo of her love and reveals to him that Luke is actually her brother, who obviously will support their own romance to Han's astonished relief. That evening, Luke cremates the remains of his father in a funeral pyre on Endor. The entire galaxy celebrates the fall of the Emperor and the Rebel victory over the Empire. Luke, Leia, Han, Lando, and the rest of the rebels, along with the Ewoks, celebrate the victory as well. During the celebration, Luke catches sight of the spirit figures of Obi-Wan Kenobi, Yoda, and the redeemed Anakin Skywalker, who look proudly upon him. Luke Skywalker has vanished. In his absence, the sinister FIRST ORDER has risen from the ashes of the Empire and will not rest until Skywalker, the last Jedi, has been destroyed. With the support of the REPUBLIC, General Leia Organa leads a brave RESISTANCE. She is desperate to find her brother Luke and gain his help in restoring peace and justice to the galaxy. Leia has sent her most daring pilot on a secret mission to Jakku, where an old ally has discovered a clue to Lukes whereabouts. The First Order, led by the evil Kylo Ren, is landing stormtroopers to attack a small village, as Poe Dameron meets with Lor San Tekka in a hut. He is given a small bag containing the map to Luke Skywalker. Kylo Ren orders the stormtroopers to destroy Lor San Tekka's entire village and takes Poe captive. Captain Phasma, a stormtrooper wearing chrome-plated armor, leads the attack. Kylo Ren wears a black mask and uses a red, fiery lightsaber. Poe's X-Wing is damaged so that he cannot escape, so the pilot puts the map in a rolling droid unit called BB-8. He fires at Kylo Ren, who uses the Force to block a blaster bolt. As Dameron is captured, the troopers massacre the prisoners, but one stormtrooper FN-2187, refuses to fire. Meanwhile BB-8 rolls away across the sands, narrowly escaping capture. The droid runs into Rey, a young scavenger who is barely surviving on Jakku. Rey scavenges parts from old wrecks of Star Destroyers on the sands of Jakku, and exchanges them for food at Unkar Plutt's scrap yard. The marks on the walls of her hut indicate she's been on Jakku for a very long time. She rescues BB-8 from a Teedo scavenger. She can understand his beeps and whistles, and offers him shelter for the night. On the First Order destroyer, Poe is unsuccessfully interrogated by the First Order. Kylo Ren is called in to use his Force powers to extract information from Poe about the whereabouts of the map. Poe resists, but ultimately divulges that the map is still on Jakku in his BB-8 unit. Meanwhile Captain Phasma confronts FN-2187 about his behavior on Jakku. She orders him to take his unused blaster in for inspection and report to her division and ultimately reconditioning. Instead FN-2187 decides to run away. He needs a pilot to escape the star destroyer, so he rescues Poe, and the two board a black First Order TIE fighter and escape. Poe renames FN-2187 as Finn, and expertly pilots to an escape while Finn fires the ship's blasters. The fighter is hit by lasers from the destroyer and crash lands on Jakku. Finn has ejected but it appears Poe has gone down with the ship leaving only his jacket. Finn wanders across the desert discarding his stormtrooper armor. Eventually, he arrives in Niima Outpost, the town where Rey trades scrap for food. While Finn is looking for water in the town, he sees Rey being accosted by two of Unkar Plutt's henchmen who are trying to make off with BB-8. He begins to rush to her aid, but before he gets far, Rey handily fights off her attackers using her staff. Clearly, she can handle herself. BB-8 spots Finn looking their way, and tells Rey that he is wearing Poe's jacket which they assume is stolen. Rey chases Finn down, knocks him to the ground and confronts Finn about the jacket. Finn tells them that Poe was captured by the First Order and that he helped him escape, but Poe was unfortunately killed. BB-8 is saddened and rolls off , but Rey is excited and impressed, and assumes Finn is a resistance fighter. Finn lies, telling her he is indeed with the resistance. Rey excitedly tells Finn that BB-8 is on a secret mission. Finn tells her BB-8 is carrying a map to Luke Skywalker and Rey is even more impressed, declaring that she thought Skywalker was a myth. BB-8 returns and alerts Finn and Rey that they are in trouble. First Order stormtroopers are now looking for Finn and the BB-8 droid. Stormtroopers chase Finn, Rey and BB-8 through Niima Outpost and TIE fighters are called in and begin to bomb and strafe the town. To make their escape, they steal a "garbage" vehicle to escape the First Order. It is the Millennium Falcon. Rey takes the pilot's seat while Finn mans the guns. Neither is confident in their abilities, and their lift off is rough, destroying a substantial portion of the town as they try to get off of the ground. Finn is able to shoot down a pursuing fighter, but the guns are hit and locked in a position that prevents him from taking out the remaining fighter. Rey flies through the wrecked ships in the desert of Jakku, occasionally scraping through the sands as they try to keep low to confuse the TIE fighter's tracking. Rey takes the Falcon into one of the Star Destroyers and just as the pursuing fighter locks onto their ship, she turns the Falcon out into the open, and performs a flip which allows Finn to fire successfully at the remaining fighter, taking it down. They head off, away from Jakku, and on toward the wider galaxy. Not having flown in years, the Falcon is not in good repair, and almost immediately requires an emergency patch. Rey begins repairing the ship while Finn admits to BB-8 he is not part of the resistance, but is still able to convince BB-8 to tell them where the Resistance base is. The Falcon is then captured and pulled into a larger ship. Finn is afraid they have been recaptured by the First Order. As the Falcon is boarded, he and Rey hide in a secret compartment, but the boarding party is actually Han Solo and Chewbacca. Rey knows the history of the ship, and how to repair and fly it. Han is impressed, but the ship is then boarded by two more smuggler parties. Han is trying his hand at smuggling again, this time by carrying some menacing Rathtars. Han tries to talk his way out of his debts with the two smuggling groups while Rey and Finn escape. Rey tries to close blast doors to save Han, but instead opens the doors to the Rathtar containers. The Rathtars attack and eat the smugglers and almost get Finn, but Rey saves him by closing a door on the creature's tentacles, severing them. The heros escape in the Millennium Falcon and leave their attackers behind. The new-found allies travel to the green planet of Takodana to seek help from Maz Kanata, an orange skinned alien. There they are spotted in the cantina by both First Order and Resistance spies. Kylo Ren sends forces to re-capture the map. Finn, still fearful of being recaptured by the First Order, admits that he is not part of the Resistance and decides to run by joining a crew heading for the outer rim. Meanwhile Rey is drawn to the lower floor of the cantina by the sound of a girl crying and opens a box to discover Luke Skywalkers lightsaber lost at Cloud City. When she touches the lightsaber she experiences a frightening vision. The dream has the voices of old Jedi like Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda. It flashes by quickly. She sees the hallways of Cloud City, a vision of Skywalker and R2-D2, a vision of Kylo Ren surrounded by bodies, thrusting his saber through the chest of a mysterious figure, a vision of herself being abandoned as a child on Jakku and finally she sees Ren pursing her in a snowy forest. On Starkiller Base, a snowy, mountainous planet, General Hux addresses legions of First Order stormtroopers. He angrily declares the death of the Republic. The planet has a massive trench around the equator, and a continent-sized aperture. The base fires a massive red beam from the center of the planet, traveling across space, and splitting into four separate beams which destroy individual planets. We see crowds of people on populated planets look up into the sky to witness the conflagration as their planet is destroyed. Rey is frightened by her vision and refuses Luke's lightsaber, running out into the forest of Takodana. Finn and the others look to the sky as the red beams can be seen destroying the other Republic planets. The First Order begin landing troops, including Kylo Ren's V-winged ship. Maz gives the lightsaber to Finn. As the stormtroopers attack Finn uses the lightsaber to fight back, but is knocked down by another stormtrooper (unnamed, but popularly referred to as TR-8R). The stormtroopers capture Han, Chewbacca and Finn. Rey tries to use the blaster given to her by Han Solo, but inexperienced and frightened she fumbles with the safety and fires wild shots giving away her position. Overwhelmed she runs deeper into the forest. BB-8 follows, and she tells him to go further on while she tries to fight off their pursuers. Kylo Ren tracks down Rey in the woods. He chases her through the forest easily fending off her desperate attempts to fire on him with the blaster. She backs away, but he stops her, using the Force to hold her still. Ren uses the Force to read her mind and discovers that she has seen the map to Luke Skywalker's location. He decides he no longer needs BB-8, so he knocks her out and carries her off in his ship, as Finn watches. The Resistance X-wing fighters arrive, finishing off the last troops. A troop ship lands carrying General Leia Organa and C-3P0. Han and Leia are reunited, but their relations are tense. It is revealed that Kylo Ren is actually their son. The heroes return to the Resistance Base, where Finn is reunited with Poe Dameron, who was not killed by the crash on Jakku. BB-8 is reunited with R2-D2 and C-3P0, but R2-D2 has been in shut down since Luke left many years before. The Resistance fighters begin to plan an attack on the Starkiller Base to avoid being wiped out. Finn wants to rescue Rey, and claims he once worked at Starkiller Base and knows how to knock out the shields. Han and Leia say their goodbyes as the X-wings led by Poe Dameron prepare to attack a weak point on the base. As they part Leia asks Han to bring their son home if he sees him. On Starkiller Base, Rey wakes to find her self locked in an interrogation chair like the one we have seen earlier in Poe's interrogation scene. Kylo Ren and she converse, and he removes his mask, revealing his face to her; he is a young and handsome man. Ren uses the Force to read Rey's mind. He senses her lonely life on Jakku, her dreams of a far away island and the closeness she feels towards Han Solo. She reacts with hostility but seems unable to keep him from reading her thoughts. When he tries to extract the information about the map from her mind, however, he runs up against an unexpected barrier. Rey is not only able to resist his further probing, but pushes back into Ren's mind, and tells him that he is afraid that he will never be as strong as Darth Vader. Ren is shaken by this and by her obvious strength with the Force, and he runs away to meet with Snoke in search of guidance on how to proceed. Kylo Ren and General Hux are scolded for not retrieving the droid, and Ren's inability to crack Rey's mind, by the Supreme Leader, who is only revealed as a massive hologram of an old and scarred man seated on a throne towering over them. Rey now understands that she has some Force talent, and uses the mind-trick power to escape from the stormtrooper guarding her cell. She sneaks through the Starkiller Base to the hanger to escape. Meanwhile, Han and Chewie come out of hyperspace on the planet in order to evade the shields, and crash land in the snowy forest. Finn reveals he does not know how to disable the shields; he only came back to rescue Rey. They capture Captain Phasma and force her to lower the shields. Finn, Han and Chewbacca head off to find Rey, but quickly discover that she has freed herself when they spot her scaling a wall of the base. They rush to meet her. She is surprised that they would come back for her, and embraces Finn when she learns from Chewbacca that it was Finn's idea that they come to the base to save her. Poe and the X-Wing fighters arrive and begin to land torpedos on the weak point, but it is not enough. Han and Chewbacca improvise a plan to plant explosives to blow it up instead. They split up to lay explosives in separate locations. Kylo Ren finds that Rey has escaped and is very angry. He searches the base for Rey. He stalks off onto a catwalk where Han spots him. Han approaches him on the catwalk, calling him Ben. He asks his son to return with him, and Ren offers his lightsaber, but then activates it and kills his father, pushing him off into the pit. Chewbacca, having watched the entire conversation, fires on Ren, hitting him in the side, and then detonates the explosives. Kylo Ren confronts Finn and Rey in the snowy forest. Ren is bleeding from his wound, but ignites his red fiery saber to fight. Rey raises her blaster to fire on Ren, but he throws her against a tree with a Force push and she lies unconscious in the snow. Finn rushes to her aid and then uses the blue lightsaber to fight Ren. Finn quickly finds himself outmatched. He manages to touch Ren with the saber, but this only enrages him. Rey is revived by the sound of Finn's screams as he is burned by Ren's saber. Ren easily disarms Finn, tossing the saber off into the snow. He then uses the Force to pull the lightsaber to himself. It hurtles towards him but then flies past. Ren turns to discover the saber in Rey's hands. They begin to fight. Rey initially fights unsuccessfully and desperately, and begins to run from Ren. He pursues her and pins her against the edge of a cliff. Ren offers to teach her the Force, but this only ends up reminding her to tap into its power. She closes her eyes for a moment of meditation and then attacks Ren with a new vigor and power. She rapidly gains the upper hand, extinguishes Ren's saber and cuts him on the arm and across the face. Meanwhile Poe Dameron and the X-Wing pilots fly into the Star Killer base trench, destroying the rest of the base. The planet begins to collapse and explode. A chasm opens between Ren and Rey as the planet continues to fall apart. Chewbacca arrives in the Millennium Falcon to pick up both Finn and Rey. The Falcon and X-Wings escape as the Starkiller Base explodes. Back at the Resistance base, Leia and Rey embrace in sadness, standing apart from the celebration of the rest of the Resistance base. Back at the Resistance Base, R2-D2 awakens and reveals the missing part of the map to Lukes location. Finn is still unconscious, and Rey tells him goodbye while he rests. Rey and Chewbacca leave in the Falcon, Rey taking the pilot's seat. They fly to the planet indicated by the map, where Rey carefully climbs a rocky island. When she reaches the top, she finds an old cloaked and bearded Jedi with a metal hand. It is Luke Skywalker. Rey wordlessly offers him the lightsaber. The First Order is plotting to seize military control of the galaxy. A team of Resistance fighters led by General Leia Organa are planning an evacuation from their main base as Supreme Leader Snoke's forces are coming for them. The Resistance holds out hope that Luke Skywalker will return to bring hope. The opening scene shows Poe Dameron and the droid BB-8 are flying over the First Order's dreadnought as General Hux orders his men to fire upon Poe and the Resistance's base. Other fighters head in for the attack. Poe orders a fighter, Paige, to drop the payload onto the dreadnought. The fighters take heavy hits, and Paige is knocked away from her remote. With mere moments before the First Order obliterates the Resistance, Paige is able to grab the remote and drop all their bombs down on the dreadnought, completely destroying it at the cost of her life. The rest of the fighters go into hyperspace to escape. Aboard the First Order ship, a hologram of Snoke reprimands Hux for failing to stop the evacuation. Kylo Ren enters the meeting. Snoke notes that, in spite of Kylo killing his father, Han Solo, he may still turn to the light side of the Force. Although Kylo protests, Snoke doesn't have faith in him. On his way down the elevator, Kylo smashes his helmet to pieces in rage. Meanwhile, former storm trooper Finn wakes up from his coma after his light-saber battle with Kylo. Poe finds him and is happy to see him. The first thing Finn asks is for Rey. Rey has just arrived on the planet Ahch-To with Chewbacca and R2-D2 on the Millenium Falcon to find Luke. She hands him his light-saber, but he just callously tosses it over his shoulder. Confused, Rey follows Luke, but he doesn't want to see her or know who she is and why she has sought him out. She tells him that Leia sent her to find him. Chewie breaks down the door to Luke's hut. Luke then asks Chewie where Han is. Leia demotes Poe as a result of his actions with the dreadnought. Moments later, the First Order ship catches up to the Resistance after tracking their hyper-speed. The First Order deploys their TIE fighters to attack. Kylo flies in in his own TIE fighter and prepares to launch the killing strike against the Resistance leaders, but he pulls back after sensing Leia on board. The other TIE fighters fire upon them, causing a blast that sucks the rebel leaders into space to their deaths. Leia pulls herself back to the ship using the Force, but she goes unconscious. Rey and Kylo begin to feel a connection in which they can see and communicate with each other. With Luke still not wanting to have anything to do with the Force or the Jedi, R2 plays him Leia's original message to Obi-Wan Kenobi to persuade Luke to help (from the first Star Wars film 'A New Hope'). Luke senses Rey's power and eventually agrees to give her lessons in the way of the Jedi and why it must end. With Leia out of commission, Vice Admiral Holdo assumes command of the Resistance. Meanwhile, Finn attempts to hop on an escape pod. He is found by mechanic Rose Tico, who is mourning Paige, her sister. Rose is a big fan of Finn, seeing him as a Resistance hero. However, she zaps him with her taser when she realizes he's trying to escape. Finn notes that the First Order is tracking them through hyper-speed, and they can't make another jump because they are dangerously low on fuel, and the First Order will find them anyway. With Poe's help, they contact Maz Kanata (Lupita Nyong'o) for assistance, but she is in the middle of a fierce battle. She does tell them that she knows a code-breaker on Canto Bight that can help them, and they need to find him wearing a particular symbol. Rey's first lesson sees Luke attempting to show her to feel the Force and control it. Rey is able to see visions and manipulate small pebbles as she achieves balance. However, she soon sees a vision of herself being pulled toward a dark pit, with Luke trying to break her out of it. The pit spews water and snaps Rey out of the vision. Luke says she saw the dark side of the Force, and she didn't even try to stop herself. He tells her he has seen something like this once before, and it didn't scare him then as it does now. This is why he considers the ways of the Jedi to be a failure. Finn, Rose, and BB-8 arrive at a casino on Canto Bight. Finn is impressed with the glitz and wealth of the casino, but Rose hates the place because only the weapons dealers who sell to the Empire are rich enough to gamble there. It is also home to a number of rotten people who take pleasure in misdeeds, including cruelty to giant but gentle creatures called fathiers that are forced to race, and enslaved children who live with them in the stables as caretakers. The trio finds the Master Codebreaker playing at a table, but the heroes get captured and thrown into a jail cell for illegally parking their ship. In their cell, Finn and Rose meet a stuttering scoundrel named DJ. He overhears the two of them needing a code-breaker, and he offers his services. DJ manages to open their cell and helps them escape, and they climb down to the stable. Rose, fascinated by the beautiful fathiers, stops to free one from its stable and finds a small boy inside. Frightened, he nearly pushes a panic button but Rose shows him her ring with the Resistance's symbol. They fight guards on the way out with the help of BB-8 and ride the fathiers as they stampede through the casino to get away. Finn and Rose's ship is destroyed but BB-8 and DJ bring them another one to make their escape. Luke mentions that the last time he saw Kylo Ren as his student, he had attempted to kill him by collapsing his hut on him. As Rey and Kylo continue to connect, Kylo tells Rey that Luke saw the power growing in Kylo and had attempted to get rid of him before he got stronger. Holdo starts to set in motion plans to evacuate the Resistance ship to a nearby Resistance stronghold, the planet Crait. Poe believes she is doing something wrong, and he attempts to stage a mutiny. Before his plans can go into effect, Leia appears after waking up and she incapacitates Poe. Leia allows Holdo's plan to go ahead. Rey confronts Luke over what Kylo told him. They engage in a brief fight before she asks if he really tried to kill Kylo. Luke explains that he sensed nothing but great darkness in Kylo, with no hope of him turning back. He did consider killing him but backed out of it, only for Kylo to see him with the light-saber and respond with a counterattack. Rey decides to leave Ahch-To with Chewie and R2. Luke walks by the tree containing sacred Jedi texts when he is met by a familiar face, Yoda. He destroys the tree with a lightning bolt, to Luke's dismay. Yoda's spirit tells Luke to help Rey before she is also lost to the dark side. Luke considers himself a failure, but, in the words of Yoda, "The greatest teacher, failure is." Meanwhile, Finn, Rose, and DJ make it to the First Order's ship. Unfortunately, they are captured by Captain Phasma and her goons, with DJ having told the villains Finn and Rose's plan in order to gain monetary compensation. At the same time, Rey arrives on the same ship and is taken prisoner by Kylo Ren. Kylo brings Rey to Snoke. Rey tries to get Kylo to abandon the dark side, but Snoke taunts Rey as she tries to fight back. Snoke reveals that he created the connection between her and Kylo in an attempt to destroy Luke. Snoke attempts to get Kylo to kill Rey with his light-saber, but Kylo uses Luke's light-saber to impale Snoke and cut him in half. Rey and Kylo then fight Snoke's soldiers and slaughter them all. Kylo, now fully taken over by the dark side, tries to get Rey to join him, but she refuses and tries to get him on the Resistance side. Kylo attempts to manipulate Rey when mentioning her parents. Despite her trying to forget, her parents were just junk traders who sold her off. Rey eventually resists and leaves to rejoin the Resistance while Kylo assumes his role as the new Supreme Leader. As the Resistance fighters are making their way to Crait, Hux's men start to fire upon the transports, killing heavy numbers of the Resistance. Seeing no other option, Holdo sacrifices herself and rams the command ship at light-speed into the First Order ship, splitting it in two and destroying other nearby ships. BB-8, having escaped the villains' clutches, commandeers a AT-AT armored Walker to fire upon the First Order soldiers. Finn and Rose prepare to escape, but Finn battles Phasma until he overpowers her. She tells him he was always scum, to which he proudly responds, "Rebel scum." The ship starts to come apart, and Phasma falls into the burning wreckage. Finn and Rose head off to meet the others on Crait. The surviving Resistance fighters have dwindled to a few dozen or so. Kylo and Hux lead gigantic walkers to the Resistance stronghold, armed with a battering ram cannon that will obliterate the entrance. Poe leads Finn, Rose, and a few others on speeders to fight back. Rey and Chewie come down with the Falcon to draw away TIE fighters while Finn attempts to stop the cannon. He nearly flies head on until Rose crashes her ship into his to stop him. Finn goes to her and asks why she did it. She tells him they always fight for what they love. She kisses him and then passes out. Finn rushes back to the stronghold to get Rose medical attention. The First Order fires their cannon onto the stronghold. Poe and Leia appear hopeless with most of their comrades dead and their own doom approaching. Suddenly, Leia is visited by Luke. The two siblings have a final meeting, with Luke saying that "Nobody is ever truly gone." Luke goes out to face the First Order. Kylo orders the soldiers to fire everything on Luke where he stands. Even after the insane amount of firepower unleashed on Luke, he still stands and coolly brushes his shoulder off. Poe realizes Luke is distracting the villains to allow them to escape. The fighters follow crystal wolves to an exit, only to be blocked by a huge pile of rocks. Kylo goes down to face Luke himself. They duel with their light-sabers, and Kylo attempts to strike Luke with a killing blow, only to realize Luke is a hologram... projecting himself while still on Ahch-To. Luke tells Kylo that he will not be the last Jedi. At that moment, Rey uses the Force to clear the way for the fighters. She and Finn embrace. Kylo screams in rage at his defeat as the heroes board the Falcon and escape. On Ahch-To, Luke finishes using what power he had left. He looks up and sees a twin sunset, just like back on Tatooine. He smiles, and then, he vanishes, now completely becoming one with the Force. Rey tells Leia that she has sensed that Luke is now gone, and she asks what will become of the Resistance now. Leia tells her they have what they need to rebuild. On Canto Bight, a trio of stable children that previously encountered Finn and Rose are telling each other the story of Luke Skywalker. Their master comes over to scold them to force them back to work. The boy they had found in the stable goes outside to sweep. He looks up at the sky to see the Falcon flying overhead, and, with Rose's Resistance ring on his finger, he raises his broom like a light-saber. 
