The premiere episode introduces the boss and staff of the Dunder-Mifflin Paper Company in Scranton, Pennsylvania in a documentary about the workplace.
 

Michael's off color remark puts a sensitivity trainer in the office for a presentation, which prompts Michael to create his own.
 

Michael leaves Dwight in charge of picking the new healthcare plan for the staff, with disastrous results ahead.

Just for a laugh, Jim agrees to an alliance with Dwight regarding the downsizing rumors.
 

Michael and his staff challenge the warehouse workers to a basketball game with a bet looming over both parties.
 

Michael is just one of the many male staff who start vying for the attention of an attractive saleswoman in the office.
 

Very much unlike his staff, an overeager Michael can't wait for this year's annual Dundies awards.
 

The office reviews its sexual harassment policy in light of explicit e-mails.

Ready to finalize his deal for a new condo, Michael is away with Dwight while Jim rallies the staff together for office games.
 

A fire in the kitchen relegates the staff to the parking lot as help is on its way.
 

Michael is pressured by corporate to fire someone, which puts a damper on the office Halloween party.
 

Jim rallies the staff together to witness a showdown between Michael and Dwight at Dwight's martial arts school.
 

With Michael and Jan Levinson-Gould away from the office to land a new client, the staff discovers an unproduced screenplay in Michael's office.
 

Instead of talking to his employees about their work, Michael uses their annual review time to gather feedback on his "relationship" with Jan.
 

Michael decides to set up e-mail surveillance for all company e-mail, and discovers that Jim has invited everyone over for a barbeque except him.
 

Seeing the party is headed for disastrous boredom, Michael breaks corporate policy to buy alcohol for the staff.


The Dunder Mifflin staff go on a mandatory "booze cruise" to hear Michael give a motivational talk.
 

Michael's "injury" from a George Foreman Grill distracts the staff from Dwight, the one with the real injury.
 

Jim fears the secret he told to Michael, in confidence, will be revealed to the staff.
 

Michael's office becomes the victim of an odorous prank which subjects the office to his punishment.
 

Jan comes into the Scranton Branch to give all the female employees a group seminar on women in the workplace. Upset that he is not allowed in on the proceedings, Michael takes all the men of Dunder Mifflin down into the warehouse for some "guy time" with the warehouse workers. Pam is offered a chance to pursue her dreams of drawing and Roy confronts Jim about his feelings for Pam.
 

When Michael visits Dunder Mifflin corporate headquarters in New York on Valentine's Day, he and Jan are both in for a surprise. Meanwhile, back in Scranton, the office staff celebrates Valentine's Day grade school style.
 

Michael coaches pompous Dwight on the finer art of public speaking after being named as Salesman of the Year.
 

A routine office day is changed when children come to Dunder Mifflin for "Take Your Daughter to Work Day." Michael is surprised when he strikes up a friendship with the five-year old daughter of his sworn enemy, Toby. Pam is desperate to befriend her colleagues' offspring and a misunderstanding puts Ryan under Stanley's thumb.
 

In celebration of his birthday, Michael makes a mandatory invite of the staff during the workday to go ice skating.
 

Dwight plays the role of Volunteer Sheriff after finding half a joint in the Dunder Mifflin parking lot leading to an investigation. Pam gives Jim a play challenge which he tries to complete.
 

When Michael takes over conflict resolution duties from HR, chaos ensues at Dunder Mifflin.
 

The Dunder Mifflin crew holds a casino party at the warehouse and Michael has two dates.
 

Michael apologizes to Oscar, after he finds out he's gay, for calling him a homosexual slur--but his apology outs Oscar to the entire office. And Jim decides to take a promotion at the Stamford office.
 

Michael and Dwight go to a convention in Philadelphia and run into Jim, and Michael becomes jealous of Jim's relationship with his new boss. Meanwhile, Pam gets ready for her first date since her engagement.
 

Michael is in trouble once again as Jan busts him for declaring it's "Movie Monday" where everyone watches a movie and neglects work. Angela pushes Dwight to make a move on Michael's job while Pam and Jim find creative ways to waste time.
 

Michael takes on the role of office grief counselor when he learns that his old boss has died.
 

Dwight takes former temp Ryan to his beet farm to initiate Ryan to his new job at Dunder Mifflin.
 

Michael encourages the entire Scranton branch to support Kelly and attend a local celebration of Diwali, the Hindu Festival of Lights. Meanwhile, Andy convinces Jim to turn a late night of work into a drinking game.
 

When Jan tells Michael that the Scranton Branch will be shutting down, Michael strives to keep his staff's spirits up. Meanwhile, everyone privately begins to envision how their lives will change in the aftermath.
 

Jan informs Michael that the Scanton branch of Dunder Mifflin will be merging with the Stamford Branch. Jim and Pam are reunited while the other employees of both branches must adjust to their new co-workers.
 

Michael learns that one of the new employees at Dunder Mifflin Scranton has a criminal record. Meanwhile, Jim helps Andy make a move on Pam.
 

Trouble among the members of the party planning committee results with the office having two competing Christmas parties, but Michael isn't interested in celebrating because he has just broken up with his girlfriend.


Michael isn't supposed to let anyone know that he and Jan went on vacation together in Jamaica, but he accidentally circulates a compromising photo of them to the office via e-mail.
 

Dwight does a favor for Angela to keep her from getting in trouble. Andy finds out and uses it against him to get in tighter with Michael. Now Dwight must fess up, which will reveal his relationship with Angela, or risk getting fired.
 

Andy does the impossible--he makes everyone in the office miss Dwight, who is forced to take a job at Staples. Meanwhile, Oscar comes back to the office and Michael predictably throws a stereotypical Mexican party to celebrate.
 

Michael asks Jim to get a male stripper for Phyllis's office bachelorette party, but he gets a Ben Franklin impersonator instead. Meanwhile, the men's bachelor party goes as planned until Michael becomes uncomfortable with the stripper.
 

Michael exaggerates the importance of his small role in Phyllis's wedding and makes an ass out of himself, and Pam notices that Phyllis stole all of her wedding ideas from her original wedding plans.
 

Michael is a guest speaker for Ryan's business class, but they have a falling-out after Michael finds out that Ryan spoke negatively about Dunder-Mifflin. And back at the office, Dwight tries to kill a bat that he found in the ceiling.
 

While Michael and Jan go to their first Dunder Mifflin outing as an official couple, the office workers left behind go out for happy hour. During happy hour, Roy finds out that Jim and Pam kissed at Casino Night.
 

Dwight saves Jim from an attack by Roy, but Dwight won't allow Jim to thank him for it. Meanwhile, Darryl asks Michael for a pay raise, and Michael discovers that he is woefully underpaid--so Michael goes to headquarters to ask for one himself.
 

Andy returns to the office after weeks of anger management training, determined to make a fresh start with all the Dunder-Mifflin employees. Meanwhile, it's safety training day in the office, and Michael and Dwight are on a mission to illuminate the dangers of the workplace.
 

Michael tries to be proactive during a watermark crisis, but only makes the situation worse. Meanwhile, Angela has trouble being apologetic with customers, and Andy discovers a secret about his new girlfriend.
 

Phyllis gets flashed in the parking lot, and Dwight goes all out to secure the premises. Michael ostensibly takes the women in the office to the mall to comfort them, but he's really doing it to get advice about breaking up with Jan.
 

Michael uses "beach day" at Dunder-Mifflin to find out which employee would be his most capable replacement, just in case he receives the promotion to the New York office that he's applied for.
 

Michael appoints Dwight as regional manager, anticipating that he will receive the job at corporate. Jim and Karen also interview for the same position. And Michael gets back together with Jan after she gets a boob job.
 

Michael accidentally runs over Meridith in the parking lot, and his guilt causes him to organize a 5-K run for her. Dwight and Angela have a falling-out after he kills her cat, and Jim and Pam's relationship is discovered.
 

Michael feels threatened when Ryan returns to the Scranton office to share his ideas about the future of Dunder Mifflin. Jim and Pam's relationship is shared with the entire office, while Angela and Dwight's relationship is on the rocks.
 

The Dunder Mifflin Infinity website is launching and Michael is excited about going to the big launch party in New York while Angela plans a satellite party for the Scranton branch. Meanwhile, Dwight competes against the website to see who can sell the most paper in one day.
 

As Jan renovates the condo, Michael confronts his growing debt every way he can, which includes pressuring his employees for a loan. Pam and Jim spend a night out on Dwight's family beet farm, now a bed and breakfast.
 

Michael tries to make a local Dunder Mifflin commercial that is better than the one the professional ad agency made for them. Meanwhile, Andy tries to confide in Dwight about his new relationship with Angela.
 

Michael and Dwight try to play a prank on Karen, who is now manager of the Utica branch, after she tries to steal Stanley from the Scranton office. Meanwhile, Pam, Toby, and Oscar start their own exclusive office book club.
 

After Michael isn't invited to a camping trip with Ryan, he sets out to prove that he can brave it out in the wilderness by himself. Jim, who is in charge of the office while Michael is gone, tries to change the birthday party policy.
 

Michael is put in an awkward position when Jan sues Dunder Mifflin for wrongful termination and he is deposed as a witness. Meanwhile, Kelly begins smack-talking Pam after Darryl beats Jim at Ping-Pong.



Michael invites Jim and Pam and Andy and Angela to a couples-only dinner party, which makes Dwight very jealous. However, the only thing he's missing is a ringside seat to witness Michael and Jan's extremely dysfunctional home life.
 

Kevin and Andy team up to reclaim the stolen Dunder Mifflin parking spaces, which forces them into a showdown with the other four bosses of the office park. Meanwhile, Michael becomes fascinated by a woman modeling chairs in a catalog.
 

Michael and Dwight go to New York to party with Ryan, who is having lots of personal and professional problems. The rest of the office employees work late, and wind up getting locked in the business park.
 

Michael tries to figure out how to respond to Stanley's insubordination during a meeting, and Dwight buys Andy's vehicle and immediately flips it for more money.
 

Dunder-Mifflin participates in a high school job fair, but few students are interested. Jim, Andy, and Kevin play a round of golf with a prospective client. Back at the office, everyone but Dwight and Angela leave for the day.
 

Michael throws an extravagant going-away party for Toby, and falls in love with the woman who is replacing him. Jim plans to propose to Pam at the party, but gets out-staged. Back at corporate, Ryan is arrested for fraud.
 

Michael tries to motivate the Scranton branch to lose weight as part of an interoffice competition. Jim is lost after Pam leaves for art school in New York, and Angela continues to see Dwight even though she is now engaged to Andy.
 

A confession at an H.R. business ethics seminar leads to a dispute between Michael and Holly over whether Meredith should be fired. Dwight tries to prove to Jim how long he can go without taking a personal break
 

After planning an office baby shower for Jan, Michael is upset when he finds out that she had the baby without him--even though he's already been told that he's not the baby's father.
 

Michael and Holly have sex for the first time, and Michael holds a fund-raiser for the office after it is burglarized. Dwight confides in Phyllis after Andy and Angela set a wedding date, and Jim runs into Pam's ex-fiancé Roy.
 

Holly is transferred back to New Hampshire after corporate discovers that she and Michael are dating. Dwight tries to apply to Cornell to get under Andy's skin. Jim's brothers and Pam decide to play a trick on Jim when they meet for lunch.
 

Dwight and Jim believe that something is suspicious about their low customer performance ratings. After consulting with Angela, Andy finds the perfect site for their wedding--Dwight's beet farm.
 

David Wallace sends Michael on a business trip to Winnipeg to help him forget about Holly's transfer to Nashua, and Pam tells Jim that she failed a class and has to stay in New York City.
 

When Michael discovers that corporate has brought back Toby to replace Holly, he tries to frame him with drugs and to get him fired. Meanwhile, Jim surprises Pam by buying his parents' house, and Pam files a secret complaints about Dwight.
 

Michael has to spend the office surplus by they end of the day, but he can't decide between a copier or new chairs. Dwight plays a dirty trick on Angela as they prepare for Andy and Angela's wedding on the beet farm.
 

Phyllis blackmails Angela into doing the work for the Christmas party, which Michael turns into an intervention after Meredith gets drunk and sets her hair on fire. Meanwhile, Dwight corners the market on a popular Christmas gift.


Moments before he leaves for New York for a meeting with David Wallace, Michael tells Andy that Angela and Dwight are seeing each other. Andy and Dwight then decide to have it out in the parking lot.
 

Michael's conscience gets the best of him after he and Dwight go undercover to scout a family-run competitor. Back at the office, everyone else spends the day debating whether Hilary Swank is hot.
 

Dwight's too-realistic fire alarm gives Stanley a heart attack. When he returns, Michael learns that he is the cause of Stanley's stress. To remedy the situation, he forces the office to throw a roast for him.
 

While on lecture tour to other Dunder Mifflin branches, Michael and Pam discover that Jim's ex-girlfriend Karen is pregnant. At the office, Andy falls for a prospective client, and Jim and Dwight try to set up Kelly's birthday party.
 

Michael and Pam go to Nashua and discover that Holly has a new boyfriend. At the office, Jim and Dwight try to come up with a theme for Kelly's birthday party, and Angela gets a new cat.
 

Michael holds a lonely hearts party on Valentine's Day at the office, hoping that he will run into a woman he met earlier that day at a blood drive. Meanwhile, Jim and Pam have an awkward lunch with Phillis and Bob Vance.
 

Michael asks Dwight to be the scapegoat for one of his business ideas that backfired badly on him. But when that idea has an unexpected positive upside, Dwight still takes credit and Michael becomes furious.
 

Michael gets upset when he gets a new boss to act as a buffer between him and David Wallace, and he gets even more upset when he disbands the Party Planning Committee and cancels Michael's fifteenth anniversary party.
 

As Michael prepares to leave Dunder Mifflin, he announces that he will form his own paper company. Will anybody join him?
 

Michael and Pam begin their first day as the Michael Scott Paper Company putting together the rest of the staff and trying to raise money.
 

Tension and disillusionment begin to emerge as Michael, Pam, and Ryan move the Michael Scott Paper Company into a cramped "workspace" at the business park.
 

Dwight chooses loyalty to Dunder Mifflin over loyalty to Michael, which leads to a bitter battle between Michael and Dwight over Dwight's accounts. Back at Dunder Mifflin, Jim pretends to confide in Andy.
 

The Michael Scott Paper Company is gaining clients by offering lower prices than Dunder Mifflin, but is going broke in the process. However, Dunder Mifflin is losing clients to him, and is desperate to buy him out.
 

Michael returns to Dunder Mifflin and brings Ryan and Pam in as salespeople, but the existing salespeople demand that Michael return the clients they stole back to them. Meanwhile, some employees take the idea of Casual Friday too far.
 

Michael tries to create a place to escape from work in the storage room that used to house the Michael Scott Paper Company, while Jim and Pam consider taking off and getting married that day.
 

Michael runs into Holly at the company picnic, and the two of them accidentally reveal that the Buffalo branch is closing during a comedy skit before corporate has made the announcement.
 

Michael regrets revealing that Stanley is having an affair, so he spreads a bunch of lies about everyone else to cover his tracks--except that one of the lies that he spread actually turns out to be true.
 

Michael sabotages--then promotes--Jim's efforts at getting a promotion, while Dwight and Toby try to prove that Darryl has submitted a fraudulent medical claim.
 

Jim discovers just how hard being the boss can be when David Wallace forces Michael and him to determine which employees will be getting a raise.
 

The Office travels to Niagara Falls to celebrate Jim and Pam's wedding under strict orders not to mention Pam's pregnancy. Michael, Dwight, and Andy all want to hook up with guests at the wedding and Michael and Dwight meet twins.
 

Pam is forced to deal with an embarrassing injury for Andy the night before her wedding, while Kevin deals with the loss of his dress shoes on the morning of the ceremony.
 

Michael meets with an insurance salesman that visits the office and is later convinced by Dwight and Andy that he is part of the mafia.
 

Jim and Pam return from their honeymoon and learn, to their horror, that Michael is dating Pam's mom. Meanwhile, Dwight gives Jim a "gift"--which actually has a listening device attached to it.
 

Michael is upset when he becomes the butt of all the office jokes after he falls in a koi pond. Andy and Pam go out together on some cold calls, and everybody mistakes them as a married couple.
 

Michael sparks more anger from Pam when he breaks up with her mom on her birthday after he finds out she's 58, and Dwight unsuccessfully tries to get everyone in the office to owe him a favor.
 

The entire office is preoccupied about rumors of Dunder Mifflin's bankruptcy. Michael tries to create a distraction by engaging everyone in murder-mystery game, but Jim wonders if that is a good idea.
 

Michael speaks out of line at the Dunder Mifflin shareholders meeting and creates a big problem for management, while Jim discovers that nobody in the office thinks he's the "real" boss.
 

Ten years ago, Michael promised a group of third graders he would pay for their college tuition if they graduated. Now comes time to pay, and he can't do it. At the office, Dwight's employee of the month idea gets Jim in big trouble.
 

Michael gets upset when Jim promises Phyllis that she can be the office Santa, but the office Christmas party may be overshadowed by some bad news from David Wallace.


A banker representing a potential buyer comes to the Scranton branch to interview the H.R. department before the sale goes through.
 

Michael hates the changes that Dunder Mifflin's new owner is implementing, so he turns to David Wallace for advice. Jim and Pam find the perfect day care center, but Jim's mistake threatens to ruin the interview.
 

Sabre's CEO wants the Scranton branch to have one manager, and Michael voluntarily steps down and lets Jim become the boss when he finds out that salespeople make more money. However, he soon comes to regret the decision.
 

Pam goes into labor and Jim is ready to take her to the hospital, but she refuses to go. Meanwhile, inspired by Pam and Jim's baby, Dwight and Angela try to reach a "business agreement" to have a baby of their own.
 

After the baby is born, Pam has trouble getting the baby to breastfeed. At the office, Michael takes credit for hooking Jim and Pam up, and tries to do the same thing for Kevin and Erin, making Andy jealous.
 

It's St. Patrick's Day, and the CEO forces the office to work late because she won't leave. In addition, Michael unsuccessfully tries to suck up to his new boss, and Andy and Erin's first date is delayed because Erin is sick.
 

When the sales staff begins trying to boss around everyone in the office, Michael tries to teach them a lesson by withholding a valuable set of sales leads.
 

Oscar gets everybody in the office to go to Happy Hour so that he can hit on a coworker in shipping. Pam tries to set up Michael with a friend at the bar, but Michael's alter ego, "Date Mike," threatens to spoil the entire evening.
 

Michael creates problems for Andy on Secretary's Day when he tells Erin that Andy was engaged to Angela, and Kevin is upset after Oscar makes a video comparing Kevin to Cookie Monster.
 

Michael is hopeful that a potential client is interested in him, but everyone in the office except Pam thinks he's wasting his time. Meanwhile, Dwight recruits Kelly to apply for the Sabre minority management training program.
 

Michael becomes convinced that Donna is having an affair and puts Dwight on the case, but Pam soon discovers that the suspicions may be true. Meanwhile, Darryl gets revenge on Andy for an earlier incident.
 

Michael continues to see Donna even after learning she's married and meeting her husband, Dwight and Angela take their baby contract to an arbitrator, and Jim and Pam struggle to stay awake at the office.
 

Jo comes to the Scranton branch to find the whistle-blower. However, three different people have confessed to Michael, Michael is protecting them, and the person most people think is the culprit is keeping his mouth shut.
 

Everybody demands that Michael fire the new office assistant, but he won't because he's his nephew. Meanwhile, Pam tries to play a prank on Dwight, who has bought the office building, to make up for ruining Jim's prank.
 

Michael is forced to go through counseling with Toby, Dwight seeks revenge on a local mall that refused his business, and Pam tries to fake her way to a promotion.
 

Andy invites the entire office to watch him in the community theater production of "Sweeney Todd," but Erin decides to babysit for Jim and Pam instead, and Michael is upset because he auditioned for the lead and didn't get it.
 

A herpes scare causes Michael to get back in touch with his ex-girlfriends, where he decides to reevaluate those relationships. Meanwhile, Andy tries to teach safe sex to his officemates, but he has a clear ulterior motive.
 

Michael organizes a sting operation to find out the secrets of a rival paper company's salesman who is stealing Dunder Mifflin's clients, and Andy gets Darryl's help to form a band.
 

It's Halloween at Dunder Mifflin, and Michael is upset that Darryl went over his head with an idea, and Jim and Pam are obsessed with finding out why Danny didn't call Pam back when they were dating four years ago.
 

During Jim and Pam's daughter's christening, Michael becomes upset over the lack of family-like unity between himself and his employees. So he responds by impulsively joining a teenage church mission to Mexico.
 

Michael sabotages Erin's "Glee" viewing party because of his contempt for Gabe, Jim and Pam discover that Dwight can keep their daughter from crying, and Andy has a bad reaction to a mixture of wine and a Japanese stimulant.
 

Some co-workers who invested in Ryan's Internet venture want him to sell, but Michael refuses to go along. Meanwhile, Jim loses his motivation to work when he reaches his commission cap, and Dwight creates a hay festival in the parking lot.
 

Pam stands up to Dwight when he makes cutbacks to save money in the building, but will Dwight have the last laugh? Meanwhile, the office is surprised and energized when Michael outsmarts Oscar in a debate about China.
 

Michael throws an elaborate Christmas party to celebrate Holly's temporary return to the Scranton branch, but is disappointed when he learns that she still has a boyfriend.



Michael gets upset when Holly returns from the holidays without an engagement ring, but still together with her boyfriend. Meanwhile, Pam tries to help her co-workers keep with their New Year's resolutions.
 

Andy tries to host a small business seminar at the office. Michael agrees to help by posing as a Greek entrepreneur, and tries to get Holly to play along.
 

When Jim gets an emergency phone call from Helene, he is forced to leave Michael in the bathroom of a gas station. Meanwhile, Holly, Erin and Dwight set out on a journey to find Michael. Back at the office Pam's artwork starts a captioning contest that seems to offend Gabe.
 

It's Valentine's Day, and the office is fed up with Michael and Holly's PDA, Andy helps Erin solve Gabe's riddles to find her gift, and Jim and Pam get drunk and try to find a place in the office to have sex.
 

Michael finally finishes his movie "Threat Level Midnight" and screens it for his employees at Dunder Mifflin, but Holly is less than enthusiastic for his finished product.
 

Everyone is up in arms after Michael convinces Holly to give Todd Packer an office job, and Andy gets upset after Pam gets a new computer for reception but not for him.
 

Michael plans to propose to Holly the day of the Dunder Mifflin garage sale, but Holly may have to take an extended leave of absence to Colorado because her father is sick.
 

Michael makes fast friends with the man coming in to replace him at Dunder Mifflin, but later begins to have second thoughts after seeing him in action.
 

Michael hosts his final "Dundies" as the boss at the Scranton branch, but tension is in the air, and Deangelo Vickers, the new boss, is having trouble with his co-hosting duties.
 

As the office gets ready for Michael's final day at Dunder Mifflin, Michael doesn't tell anyone that he's leaving a day early. Meanwhile, Deangelo accompanies a nervous Andy on a visit to one of Michael's old clients.
 

Tensions rise and feelings are hurt when Deangelo creates an "inner circle" at the office--which is only composed of men.
 

When Jim rejects Jo's offer, Dwight becomes acting manager at the Scranton branch, but an accident could cause his tenure to be short-lived.
 

The Scranton branch puts together a search committee to find the next boss, but the pool of interviewees proves to be less than impressive, and Dwight demands an interview in spite of his gun accident.
 

New Dunder Mifflin CEO Robert California leaves a piece of paper with a line down the middle that has names of the Scranton staff on either side of it, leading everyone to try and figure out what it means.
 

Under pressure from Robert to increase branch sales, Andy offers an incentive program to the sales staff, which backfires on him when he offers a very personal grand prize.
 

After the entire warehouse staff wins the lottery and quits their job, Darryl becomes depressed and demands to be fired. Meanwhile, the office staff is forced to load the truck for their orders themselves.
 

Andy claims to be throwing a garden party at Dwight's farm to impress Robert California, but he's really doing it to win the approval of his parents, who appear to favor his younger brother.
 

Erin is worried that she is about to get fired after she organizes a disastrous office Halloween party for Robert and his son. Meanwhile, Robert probes the minds of the employees to come up with the perfect spooky story.
 

Dwight installs a "Doomsday Device" on the office computers that could get everyone fired if they make too many mistakes, while Gabe tries to hit on one of Darryl's warehouse employees.
 

A pregnant and insecure Pam tries to prove that Jim is attracted to her temp replacement, and Robert and his musician friends take over a jam session with Andy, Kevin and Darryl.
 

Andy decides to motivate and inspire everyone by taking them on a field trip to Gettysburg. Some people in the office stay behind and Robert California asks them to come up with Dunder Mifflin/Sabre's next big idea.
 

Robert brings his wife to the office so that she can find a job, but he gives Andy conflicting messages about whether to hire her. Meanwhile, Dwight opens a gym in the building and tries to persuade Darryl to join.
 

Andy tries to make this year's Christmas the best ever by granting each person's holiday wishes. Meanwhile, Robert California tries to drown his sorrows at the office party.


Andy hopes to make up for a sales deficiency by entering and winning a bar trivia competition, while Dwight flies to corporate headquarters in Florida to demand a management interview with Robert.
 

Robert throws a party for the Dunder Mifflin staff at his house before he sells it because of his divorce. At the party, Erin and Dwight agree to flirt with each other to make Andy jealous, and Jim tries in vain to duck out early.
 

Jim gets caught in a lie about his week of "jury duty," and new questions emerge when Angela gives birth to a "premature" baby.
 

Andy puts Dwight in charge of a special project in Tallahassee, but Dwight doesn't like the team Andy's assembled for him. Meanwhile, Darryl tries to figure out the meaning of Val's Valentine's gift.
 

Dwight refuses to let appendicitis get in the way of leading his new team in Tallahassee, while Andy decides to step in for Erin as secretary in the office.
 

In Tallahassee, Dwight and Todd Packer try to romance Nellie to get the VP position, while Jim wonders if a colleague is trying to hit on him. Back in Scranton, Val's boyfriend shows up with a message for Darryl.
 

Dwight and his team get ready for the grand opening of the Sabre Store, while Andy makes Toby teach self-defense to the Scranton branch employees after he is beat up in the parking lot by a girl.
 

Jim tries to warn Dwight that he's going to be fired after Robert rejects the Sabre Store idea, but he refuses to listen. Meanwhile, Darryl and Toby try to sell cookies to Kevin, and Erin tells Andy she's not coming back from Florida.
 

Andy goes to Tallahassee to tell Erin that he loves her and needs her to return to Scranton. Meanwhile, Nellie shows up in Scranton and tries to claim Andy's manager position by offering everyone raises.
 

Andy tries to break up with his girlfriend after going to Florida to declare his love for Erin, and the office employees are forced against their will to throw a party for the hated Nellie.
 

Andy and Erin return to Dunder Mifflin, only to discover that Nellie has taken his job and office and refuses to give them up. Meanwhile, Ryan becomes jealous after Pam tries to play matchmaker for Kelly.
 

Andy confronts Robert for the first time after losing the manager position and quitting his job at a fund raiser sponsored by Angela's husband.
 

Dwight and Jim fight with the Syracuse over a client after Robert shuts down the Binghamton branch, and Andy sees an opportunity for revenge. Meanwhile Robert tries to figure out the contents of a drunken voicemail to Nellie.
 

With former CEO David Wallace's help, Andy launches a plan to get revenge on the Scranton branch. Meanwhile, Dwight launches his own plan to find out if he's the father of Angela's baby.
 

Dwight and Jim are intimidated by the office's newest additions, who are considered younger versions of themselves. Meanwhile, Andy tries to make Nellie's life miserable, and Angela tries to get rid of one of her cats.
 

After Roy's wedding, Jim and Pam wonder if they still have any secrets they're hiding from each other. Meanwhile, Clark tricks Erin into a "news audition," and Dwight challenges Nellie's new charity initiative.
 

Nellie plays a trick on Andy after researching his ancestry, Dwight teaches Erin a new language, and Pam tries to teach Nellie how to drive.
 

When Jim convinces Dwight that the building is unsafe, Dwight rents a bus and sets up the office inside. Nellie asks for Andy's help in adopting a baby. Meanwhile, Jim tries to make Pam happy with some pie.
 

On Halloween, the Cornell a Capella group pays a visit to Andy, Dwight discovers that Nellie takes anxiety pills, and Pam disapproves of Jim's business decision.
 

Andy has one last chance to captain the family boat before he sells it, Jim, Pam, and Nellie prank Dwight with a radio interview, and Kevin finds out about Oscar's affair with Angela's husband.
 

The office trains Dwight to sell to a female client without being offensive, only to discover that the client is Jan Levinson. Angela and Oscar both think the senator is cheating on them, and Jim has trouble on an important conference call.
 

Angela orders a hit on Oscar for cheating with her husband, the office makes a tower with their customer complaint cards, Jim wines and dines Stanley and Phyllis in exchange for a favor, and Pam begins her mural.
 

Dwight puts together a Pennsylvania Dutch-themed office Christmas party, but he ends it abruptly because Jim has to leave for his other job. Meanwhile, Erin seeks comfort from a co-worker after a disappointing text from Andy.


Pam causes a lice outbreak but lets Meredith take the blame, Jim has a business meeting with Dr. J, and some coworkers try to get Darryl and Val back together.
 

Dwight and Clark pose as father and son to get an account, Darryl goes for an interview with Jim's new business, and everybody in the office goes crazy over a new espresso machine.
 

Dwight tries to keep Daryl from leaving Dunder Mifflin, Jim misses his daughter's recital because of an important business meeting, and Nellie is worried that Erin will dump Andy for Pete.
 

Dwight gets to hire a new salesman to replace Jim when he is at his other job. But will he promote Clark or go with one of his unqualified friends instead?
 

Pam tries to find out who vandalized her mural, Darryl finds out that Jim is a slob, and Oscar and Kevin go to Angela and The Senator's child's first birthday party.
 

Andy returns after three months to an angry office and an even angrier girlfriend, and Jim's Valentines Day with Pam does not go as planned.
 

Andy finds out that Erin dumped him for Pete, Dwight gets Angela's help taking care of his aunt, and Pam interviews with a real estate firm whose boss is a carbon-copy of Michael Scott.
 

Show follows Dwight Schrute a beet farmer running a bed and breakfast inn.
 

The release of the documentary promos creates tension for the Dunder Mifflin employees, Dwight considers a business venture with his girlfriend's family, and Jim and Darryl have an awkward business meeting with baseball player Ryan Howard.
 

Dwight shoots Stanley with a bull tranquilizer after he refuses to go on a sales call, Jim and Pam head to marriage counseling, The Senator comes out of the closet, and Andy tries to find a talent agent.
 

The employees hold a paper airplane competition, Andy gets an acting role in a workplace safety video, and Jim and Pam's marriage tensions continue to build.
 

Dwight becomes regional manager after Andy quits his job, Jim dedicates more time to his Dunder Mifflin job to save his marriage, and Angela has problems with her new living arrangements after her breakup with The Senator.
 

Dwight prepares for a marriage proposal and hires an assistant for his assistant, Andy auditions for a singing program, Darryl tries to leave his job without a fuss, and Pam has second thoughts about Jim staying in Scranton.
 

One year later, Dunder Mifflin employees past and present reunite for a panel discussion about the documentary and to attend Dwight and Angela's wedding.


Pam transfers a call from Katy to Jim's desk and the two make lunch plans. In a talking head interview, Pam awkwardly explains that Jim and Katy have started dating, Pam then asks Jim to give Katy the extension to his phone.

Michael gives Ryan a glowing checkpoint review. When Ryan expresses his interest in starting his own business someday, Michael takes it upon himself to teach Ryan the first of the ten rules of business. The fire alarm sounds, and while Dwight and Angela both attempt to take charge of the evacuation, Michael pushes others out of the way in his escape out of the building.

In a talking head interview, Ryan explains that he doesn't want to have a nickname or be known for anything at the office. Once everyone is safely outside, Jim begins a game of "three books on a desert island". At Dwight's turn, he misses the point of the exercise and asks for an axe and a hollowed-out book filled with survival gear.

Jim changes the topic from books to DVDs. In a joint talking head interview, Jim and Pam mock Meredith's choices, although Pam admits that she too likes Legally Blonde. Jim teases Pam for liking that movie.

Michael learns that Ryan is going to business school at night. Michael invites Ryan to quiz him but doesn't even understand the first question. In a talking head interview, Michael explains that he learned more about business from working at a fast-food restaurant than Ryan will ever learn in school. Dwight, still jealous of the attention Ryan is getting from Michael, attempts to bully the young employee but merely earns a scolding from Michael. Ryan becomes increasingly uncomfortable with Michael's friendliness.

Jim moves on to the next game, "Who would you do?", and Kevin instantly responds, "Pam." Jim and Pam excuse themselves from the game to talk to Dwight, who is moping in his car. Pam suggests that Ryan would be impressed to learn that Dwight is a volunteer sheriff's deputy, and Jim tries to keep a straight face when he suggests that Dwight quit, "and then that would stick it to both of them." Dwight thanks them for their concern but asks to be left alone.

Jim, Pam, Michael, Ryan and even Roy join the game of "Who would you do?" Roy answers "that tight-ass Christian chick." Jim jokingly chooses Kevin, and Michael says, "Well, I would definitely have sex with Ryan." When Michael mentions that he left his cell phone in the office, Dwight rushes back into the building to fetch it.

The women of the office continue playing "Who would you do?" Meredith: "Jim." Phyllis: "Definitely Jim." Kelly: "Definitely, definitely Jim." Pam considers her response and says, "Oscar's kind of cute." She also mentions that Toby is cute and the others groan in disapproval, except for Meredith, who nods and smiles.

Michael asks Ryan to call his cell phone to help Dwight find it. The phone rings. It's in Michael's pocket. Dwight emerges, coughing, from the building and reveals that the fire was started by Ryan, who left a cheese pita in the toaster-oven set to "oven" instead of "toaster". Dwight and Michael proceed to mock Ryan and dub him The Fire Guy.

Katy arrives for lunch and joins the DVD game. Her first movie: Legally Blonde.

The fire out, everybody heads back inside. Michael promises Ryan, "I'll give you the rest of the ten tomorrow."


Michael is forced to have six hours of counseling with Toby after he physically punished his nephew, Luke. However, Michael is determined to thwart Toby's efforts. One hour into his first session, Michael realizes that simply sitting and staring at Toby doesn't count for credit toward being there. Thus, he begins telling ridiculous stories. Toby sneakily suggests that they take a break from the session, play some games, and "talk" to pass the remaining 6 hours. Oddly enough, Michael lets his guard down and opens up to Toby about his childhood and relationships with people. Through listening to his history, Toby determines that Michael has an inherent need to be liked. Once he realizes what is happening, Michael ends the counseling session, and yells at Toby for duping him. Rather than arguing, Toby gives up and hands Michael the official counseling form, explaining that it has to be sent to corporate. However, this enables Michael to fill out the form any way he wants. In his haste, Michael accidentally indicates on the form that he is severely depressed and homicidal.

Meanwhile, Pam realizes that although she has her dream job as a salesman , she really isn't cut out for it. Since starting the position, she has made few sales, and therefore, very little money. A chance visit from a vendor gives her an idea: if she can finagle her way into being promoted to office administrator, it will probably improve her income. She informs Gabe of her promotion "from a few months back," and tells him that she hasn't been paid accordingly. Gabe promises her he'll get the missing wages if she can get all of the department heads to sign off on it. While she's busy convincing everyone that she has become the new administrator, Gabe catches on that she might be lying, and confronts her about it. Using a strategy she learned from watching World Poker Tour at 2am, she stands her ground against Gabe and becomes 'de facto' Office Administrator.

Dwight has decided to boycott the Steamtown Mall after a shop owner refuses to serve him, going so far as to cancel orders to businesses there. Jim and the rest of the office convince Dwight to get revenge on the shop owner by making Dwight appear to be high-class as Julia Roberts did in the film Pretty Woman ("Beautiful Girl" according to Dwight). Using tips from the rest of the office to make himself appear more sophisticated, Dwight, with Jim and Andy, return to the shop. It is revealed Dwight came by with beet juice soaked hands, easily confused for human blood, and was refused service on security grounds. The group leaves somewhat embarrassed, but not before Dwight buys what he came here for: a pewter wizard holding a crystal ball.

At the end of the episode, Michael is told that he accidentally indicated he was homicidal by Toby. Although he initially blames Toby for the mishap, he turns his ire to Gabe, even making Toby laugh. Michael openly offers to return to the break room with Toby and "bang this out". We see them both talking and drawing pictures at the end of the episode.


Michael is seen making offensive jokes around the office but is later insulted himself by a joke made by Dwight regarding the KGB. After banning "knock knock" jokes, Jim changes the joke from "knock knock" to "ding dong", intriguing Michael. Jim responds that the KGB is again waiting, only to have Michael and Dwight fight over who gets the door. Eventually, Jim slaps Dwight the same way Dwight had slapped Michael as a part of the joke.

Michael comes to work dressed up and starts to impersonate Willy Wonka, after being "inspired" by an idea that is sure to bring up paper sales. His idea is to place golden tickets in shipments of paper for the customers to be eligible for a 10% discount for a year. In addition to his excitement, Michael also holds a "marketing conference" in the office. However, his idea backfires, as the company's largest client, Blue Cross of Pennsylvania, receives a ticket and Oscar claims that a 10% discount given to Blue Cross is harmful to the company. The news worsens when the health insurance company receives all the golden tickets, making them eligible for 50% off on all paper purchases. To make matters worse, it is revealed that Michael had completely forgotten to note "limit one per customer". Michael, at first, berates Darryl for not properly labeling the shipments for the customers, although Darryl made it clear that Michael had to know that shipments close to each other meant they were headed to the same customer. Embarrassed, Michael disposes of his Willy Wonka attire and returns with Andy's blazer, and starts a conference to get the branch out of the problem.

However, all the employees are disgruntled and are also furious for reasons of their own, such as Jim blaming Michael for his losing 1/2 of his commission while he has to pay a mortgage for his parents' home. Soon Michael receives a call from CEO David Wallace, who is also furious and demands an explanation on the perpetrator responsible for the idea and why the idea was approved. Michael, not admitting that it was his idea, claims it was an "inside job" and blames it on one of the employees: Dwight. Soon, Dwight is seen talking with Michael, fighting over who was responsible for the idea, which Dwight clearly explains was Michael's fault, with the help of his diary.

Later, Dwight and Michael are seen walking around, discussing loyalty and what Dunder Mifflin had offered Dwight. Michael also explains that true loyalty is to take the blame from Wallace and risk losing his job. Dwight considers accommodating Michael but has not made his mind up when Jim tries to talk him into letting Michael take responsibility for his actions. When Wallace comes in Michael, expecting Dwight to get fired, anxiously asks Dwight to take the blame for the golden ticket idea. Michael is appalled when Wallace tells them that due to the golden ticket idea, Blue Cross is making Dunder Mifflin its exclusive office supply provider. Dwight, having risked losing his job when the golden tickets were a bad idea, takes the credit as the office cheers 'his' great idea. Wallace wants Dwight to talk to the Marketing department and as the telephone conference begins, Michael listens in then busts into the conference room to claim the credit. Michael becomes furious and complains that it was his idea and fights with Dwight to take credit. However, Wallace, unable to believe that Michael wants credit after having blamed a subordinate, becomes annoyed and leaves prematurely. Dwight and Michael later discuss to the camera about whose idea it was in their own words and begin to fight over Dwight's diary. In the end, Dwight also continues his KGB joke with Jim, only to be stood up after Jim states "I'm taking a shower, can you come back later?"

Meanwhile, Kevin, interested in Lynn, asks advice from Jim, Pam, and Andy. Jim recommends caution, Pam recommends action, and Andy recommends brutish behavior. As the three begin to fight over what is true and whose idea is more practical, a frustrated Kevin decides to take matters into his own hands. Kevin asks Lynn out in his own method and is successful.



Karen, now Regional Manager at the Dunder-Mifflin branch in Utica, New York, offers a higher-paying job to Stanley, if he leaves Scranton. Stanley takes the offer and bluntly informs Michael. Michael believes that Karen is doing this to get back at Jim for "dumping" her.

Meanwhile, Pam, Oscar, and Toby have created a "Finer Things Club", where they discuss literature, music, and the arts. Membership in the club is "exclusive", though they are still bothered by the activity of the other workers in the office. Jim wants to join but Toby and Oscar feel he dominates the conversation by trying to be funny, thus diverting the conversation away from the "finer things". Andy wants to join because it's the office's most exclusive club (the party planning committee, headed by Angela, is his backup and Kevin's band Scrantonicity II is his safety), but all three members shoot him down.

Michael and Dwight invite Jim on a "sales call", which is a trick to get him to go to Utica to help get back at Karen. Jim is shocked by the deception but agrees to go along in order to prevent Michael and Dwight from doing anything foolish, including using Dwight's Molotov cocktails.

When Karen discovers the Scranton crew trying to steal her copier, she chastises them in her office. Before they leave, she pulls Jim aside and attempts to have a civil conversation with him. She is under the impression that this prank was constructed so Jim could have an opportunity to see her. 
BW
Jim awkwardly tells her that he didn't want to see her, trying not to hurt her feelings further, but does not succeed; he lets slip that he and Pam are finally dating and very happy. Karen reacts to the news with anger and he leaves.
After Michael returns to Scranton, he tearfully says farewell to Stanley. Stanley then states his intentions to stay in Scranton, revealing to the camera that his threat of leaving was a bluff to get a raise.

Pam attempts to cheer up Jim by giving him a place in the "Finer Things Club" as Andy still longs to be in it. The episode ends with Jim and the rest of the club wearing traditional Irish caps (Pam is wearing a scarf around her head). They are trying to discuss Angela's Ashes but Jim is being disruptive by speaking candidly with an Irish brogue. He gets it out of his system and then says he found the book to be a "fun read". Oscar and Toby are unamused, considering the book is a tragic memoir, and do not believe Jim actually read the book. Jim only proves them right by saying that the main character in the memoir is 'ashes'.



Andy decides to throw a garden party at Schrute Farms to impress both Robert and his parents. Andy is noticeably jealous at the amount of attention his younger brother Walter Bernard, Jr. receives from his father, and he thinks that by throwing an elaborate party he can ensure his father's blessings. At first, the party goes along smoothly. Andy decides to make a toast to his fellow employees in hopes that they will toast him in return, as if to show his parents and California that he is a respected individual among his employees. His plan backfires, however, and instead many people end up praising Robert. To get everybody's mind off of Robert, Andy decides to sing "More Than Words" as a duet with his father. This too goes awry as his visibly-annoyed father corrects his playing and singing, and ultimately decides to sing a duet with Walter Jr. instead of Andy. Visibly upset, Andy stops their singing and storms off.

Soon thereafter, Andy is confronted by his father for his "obnoxious attitude", which he turns into a browbeating on Andy as "manager of some rinky dink branch". This conversation is overheard by the other staff on the baby monitor Jim and Pam brought for their daughter, and Pam quickly turns off the monitor to let Andy save face. Darryl and Oscar later confide to the camera that they now understand why Andy feels he needs to prove himself to everyone. After his family leaves, a dejected Andy, feeling unwanted by his family and co-workers, says goodbye to the office staff as they turn the garden party into a barbecue. Darryl and Oscar, however, manage to convince Andy to stay with a cheeseburger and a beer, and they all satisfyingly watch as Dwight performs the closing ceremonies to the garden party.

Meanwhile, Dwight works to make the garden party a classy event. Dwight thoroughly reads a book called The Ultimate Guide to Throwing a Garden Party that he'd bought online, thinking it was a great buy. However, the book is revealed to be an elaborate prank, secretly written by Jim under the pseudonym "James Trickington". The book gives outlandish advice such as announcing each guest's name as they arrive in an extremely loud manner among other absurd "duties" (imitating The Last Supper in the middle of a meal, randomly dancing with his party staff, etc.). Near the end of the episode, Andy and the staff look on in delight as Dwight and his workers perform a fire court dance (as part of the Trickington book) as a closing ceremonies. The episode then ends with footage of Jim abusing Dwight's announcing duties by walking past him and then walking back again, prompting Dwight to shout his name each time he does so.

Also, Pam feuds with co-worker Angela over baby names. Pam and Angela learn they've both chosen the name Phillip for their soon-to-be-born sons, with Pam choosing to name her child after her deceased grandfather and Angela after the name of her favorite cat. Angela, visibly annoyed that Pam doesn't relinquish the name right away, later makes a toast to "my son Phillip" at the garden party—only to have Pam make the same toast but describe in great detail how the name honors her now-dead grandfather. Angela, unwilling to reveal her feline-centric reasons for the name, grouses to the camera that Pam is always copying her.


Michael shows us how he impresses people by having Pam give him fake messages telling him there's a call for him so he can say he'll call back later no matter how important the call or caller may be. On one occasion, Ryan is visiting, and Pam brings the usual fake message. Michael initially passes it up, but Ryan insists that customer service is the first priority and has Michael take the call, which requires Michael to do a surprise bit of improv.

Jan and Michael drive to the corporate office in New York City to do a deposition for Jan's lawsuit over her dismissal. They rehearse Michael's testimony in the car, and he makes up absurd mnemonic devices so he won't forget what to say. He has also memorized Jan's answers and plans to throw in some "errs" and "ahhs" for the deposition to appear not so scripted.

Meanwhile, back at the warehouse, Darryl is wiping Jim out in a ping pong game while Pam and Kelly watch. Kelly goes all trash talk on Pam, about how Pam's boyfriend "sucks" at ping pong, but Kelly calls it "talking smack." Pam gets ticked off and sets up a practice ping pong table in the conference room so she can get back at Kelly by way of Jim and Darryl. She gets Kevin and then Dwight as "sparring partners" for Jim, but Dwight easily defeats Jim. Dwight reveals for the first time that he is a huge lifelong table tennis fan, and he reels off the names of immortals of the sport whom he idolizes.

At corporate, Michael is (maybe) all set to support Jan during the deposition hearing, but Ryan then takes him aside and urges him to do the right thing and not hurt Dunder Mifflin. Michael agrees and then is left with a terrible conflict. Michael's testimony starts well when he mentions the inappropriate way corporate handled Jan's situation, but his comments about her drinking and about apparent conflicts in statements he made about the nature of their relationship and when it started to cause problems.

When he finds out that Jan has stolen his diary in order to prove the timeline of their relationship, Michael is extremely upset. Jan points out that he emailed a nude photo of her to the entire company. Toby tries to comfort him, to no avail.

Then, to add insult to injury, Dunder Mifflin's attorney reveals to Michael that Jan gave him a scathing performance review after they had begun dating. In it, she argued that Michael is an unmanageable employee and unfit for his position as branch manager, and should be demoted.

In a last-ditch attempt to win Michael back to her side, Jan has her lawyer read the deposition of David Wallace. From it, Michael, who always felt that he was a front-runner for the job at Corporate, learns that Wallace reluctantly admitted that, while Michael is a nice guy, he was never a serious contender for the job.

But David has shown more consideration to Michael than Jan so, when asked if he believes Dunder Mifflin really showed a pattern of mistreatment to Jan, Michael declares that it did not. He does not hold David's words against him, stating "You expect to get screwed by your company. But you never expect to get screwed by your girlfriend."

Michael and Jan drive home, clearly angry at each other. Jan suggests they pick up some Chinese food. Michael states he'd prefer something cheap, and Jan replies that Chinese is cheap. They agree to fast food.


Michael burns his foot stepping on to a George Foreman grill, and then tries to convince his staff that he has a serious injury. To do this, he irritates the office (Pam and Ryan, notably) to help him with his "injury". For example: He asks Pam to spread butter on his foot, and when Michael falls off the toilet, he yells for Ryan to help him. When Ryan refuses to do this, Michael calls a meeting in the conference room. During all this, Dwight, who tries to pick Michael up and bring him in to work upon hearing of his injury, crashes his car exiting Dunder Mifflin's parking lot, giving himself a concussion. Because of this Dwight is more helpful and friendly to Pam, which Jim notes. In the conference room meeting, Michael shows pictures of handicapped people (Forrest Gump, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Tom Hanks as Josh Baskin in Big which he mistakes for Philadelphia.) Then the handicapped business park manager enters and is told he was invited by Michael to come. When he asks if anyone has any questions about the building rules, Dwight raises his hand and says nothing. When Michael tells the building's manager that they are similar because they are "disabled" this causes him to wheel out. When Jim sees him enter the elevator he asks Jim "What's wrong with that guy?" meaning Dwight. He then states that he looks like he has a concussion. Ryan, sick of Michael, puts medicine in his pudding to help him recover. While Michael is boasting about his recovery, Dwight collapses, and Jim and Michael (Michael being less than willingly) take him to the hospital. While Jim waits in the waiting room, he calls Pam at the office, and tells her that Michael is taking Dwight to get a CATscan. Angela tries to listen into this. The episode ends with Michael trying to stick his foot into the CATscan machine.


Andy returns to the office after several weeks in anger management training, determined to make a fresh start with all the Dunder Mifflin employees. Meanwhile, it's safety training day in the office, and Michael and Dwight are on a mission to illuminate the true dangers of the workplace.

Upon his return, Andy requests that the rest of the office refer to him as Drew. Dwight decides to shun Andy for three years. Michael takes the staff of the upper office into the warehouse to hear Darryl's presentation on warehouse safety. Darryl repeatedly reinforces that Michael is not allowed to operate the heavy machinery in the warehouse, and Michael only irritates the warehouse staff more by constantly interrupting Darryl, at which point, Lonnie insults Michael in front of everyone. In a talking head interview, Darryl reveals that he is on crutches because Michael pulled a ladder out from under him as a joke. The office and warehouse staff then head upstairs, where Toby reads office safety tips from a book as Michael frequently interrupts and insults him. Bored with the presentation and of Michael, the warehouse staff depart, and Michael and Darryl exchange words, with Darryl calling Michael's life and job completely safe like "Nerf."

Meanwhile, the entire office staff begins betting on various things, a trend started by Kevin, who is bored since March Madness has ended and he has nothing to bet on. On one bet, Jim, Kevin, Karen, and Oscar bet on how many jelly beans are in Pam's candy dish. Kevin loses to Jim and calls this unfair since Jim has spent "hours" standing at Pam's desk. A look of discomfort spreads across Karen's face when she hears this. Other bets include guessing how long Kelly can talk about Netflix (Ryan wins), how many times she says awesome (twelve times, Pam wins), how many romantic comedies she mentions (six times, Jim wins). The final bet is whether Creed will notice if someone switches his apple with a potato. Karen loses every bet and gets cleaned out.

Offended by Darryl's comments, Michael decides to show them that working in an office is dangerous because the stress of office life can lead to depression and suicide. Michael plans to demonstrate the dangers of depression by jumping off the roof and secretly landing on a trampoline. However, when he and Dwight test the trampoline by tossing a watermelon, the watermelon bounces off, landing on Stanley's car, so they replace the trampoline with a bouncy castle. Dwight calls the office and warehouse staff to the parking lot, where they see Michael standing on the roof, talking about the dangers of depression. Initially, they do not take Michael seriously, but then they find the bouncy castle and realize that Michael is actually planning to jump, which will probably injure him badly. Darryl talks Michael out of his fake "suicide attempt", by convincing him that he is braver than Darryl.

At the end of the day, Stanley is shocked when he sees his car covered in watermelon from Michael's test.


Jim Halpert enters, dressed as Dwight Schrute. He explains that he accidentally found Dwight's glasses at a drug store for four dollars, and was unable to resist recreating the rest of Dwight's ensemble for a grand total of eleven dollars. Jim imitates Dwight's mannerisms and tone: "Fact. Bears eat beets. Bears. Beets. Battlestar Galactica" and Dwight starts to get upset: "Identity theft is not a joke, Jim! Millions of families suffer every year!" Jim screams "Michael!" and ran to his office. Dwight, very annoyed, did the exact same thing.
Dunder Mifflin Scranton is thrown into damage control when some paper is released with an obscene watermark of a cartoon duck and mouse having sex. Michael addresses the media while Jim and Andy try to calm a school principal who used the affected paper to send out prom invitations. After arriving at the high school, Andy notices that his "girlfriend" is a student, and this ruins his day.

Meanwhile, Kelly is entrusted with training the accountants, Oscar, Kevin, and Angela, to handle customer support calls. Angela is unable to sincerely apologize to customers for the company's mistake, while Oscar seems to handle the calls well and Kevin simply repeats his apology over and over again.

Michael arranges for a customer to come to the office, so that he may apologize to her personally and present her with a novelty check for free paper. With the media present (a single reporter from the Scranton Times), Michael apologizes to the customer. However, she refuses his apology and asks for his resignation. Dwight attempts to defuse the situation by insisting that the cartoon sex appears consensual. Michael refuses to resign and angrily decides to give the check to someone else. He then decides to make an "apology video," filmed by Pam, in which he reiterates the fact that the mistake was not his fault and that he has become an "escape goat."

Meanwhile, Creed, who as Quality Assurance failed to catch the error, maneuvers to ensure that he saves his own job (at the expense of an employee at the paper mill). He gets a farewell card for her and money from all the employees. On his way out, Creed pockets the money and tosses the card.

Later, in the car, Jim cajoles Andy into singing "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" to cheer him up. In the closing, Dwight comes to work dressed as Jim and imitates him very poorly.


Dwight finds half of a joint in the parking lot of Dunder Mifflin and takes advantage of his volunteer sheriff deputy status by interviewing the staff to get to the bottom of it. Meanwhile, Jim does an impression of Stanley and gets caught. When he and Pam speak at the same time (impersonating Stanley's response), Pam calls "jinx" so Jim can't talk until he buys her a Coke, which isn't an issue until he discovers the vending machine is sold out. When Dwight sets up urine testing, Michael worries that a "clove cigarette" he smoked at an Alicia Keys concert will show up.

Michael holds an anti-drug meeting for the entire office, where he over-expresses his hatred of drugs. He tries to get out of the testing, but Dwight continues to insist that he must take part. Michael pressures Dwight for a cup of his "clean" urine, but Angela is against the idea. Jim continues to hold up his end of the jinx. Pam continues to tease him, until she gets to the point where she says, "you can tell me anything", which creates an awkward silence. Michael passes his drug test (with Dwight's urine); Dwight turns in his volunteer badge over his actions. Pam buys Jim his Coke, which he buys off of her so she can find out what's been happening with Dwight the whole day. Michael feels guilty, so he makes Dwight an "Honorary Security Advisor" for Dunder Mifflin Scranton. Jim wonders aloud what Dwight gets out of his relationship with Michael, while the camera focuses on him and Pam, suggesting that the two have a similarly confusing relationship.


Hannah brings her infant son to work where his all-pink ensemble evokes gender confusion. The baby is met with ambivalence from Stanley. Creed attempts to play a paperclip-based game against Karen's admonishment. Michael can't help himself, and crawls under a nearby desk to act as the voice of the child riffing on lines from the Look Who's Talking film series.

Angela, Kevin, Michael and Pam teleconference Jan to determine the source of a rebate check the office received. Jan informs the group the check stems from a federal reformed convict employment program, a "smart move" by Josh, former manager of Dunder Mifflin Stamford. She e-mails human resources and quickly determines the employee hired through the program is one Martin.

Michael proposes the quartet forget the news they've received to avoid creating a rift among employees. All agree, although Michael misreads a sarcastic Angela who says she supports protecting a criminal, especially as a "90 lb. female who sits in a poorly-lit, rarely-visited corner of the office".

Meanwhile, Andy dials Jim's extension and whispers "I'm horny". Jim is flabbergasted but soon realizes Andy wants a rundown on his attractive female coworkers and asks for a debriefing on Kelly, Angela and Pam. Jim encourages Andy to pursue Pam and as a prank, coaches him on her favorite things. In actuality, his tips are things that Pam hates: frisbee-based competitions, hunting, pig Latin, and the Six Flags television commercial "with the old guy".

Dwight assures Michael he is of a collected, cool mindset to hear a piece of news, but when told of Martin's criminal past attempts to take off in a dead sprint. In an interview he says he simply doesn't like criminals. Michael himself announces Martin's "problems with Johnny Law" to everyone, and says that for every trusted white man, he can name a black man he trusts more. He then asks employees to call out names of white men. He tops Pam's father with "Danny Glover", but is unfamiliar with Jim's suggestion of "Jonas Salk"; Jim quickly substitutes Justin Timberlake, which garners "Colin Powell". Karen suggests "Jesus", to which the boss replies "Apollo Creed" to which Stanley simply rolls his eyes in casual disbelief.

In the breakroom over lunch, Martin tells the others he was incarcerated for insider trading, and although it was routine and could be dull, he enjoyed certain perks of prison, including outside time and art classes. Ryan is told about prison business classes taught by Harvard Business School guys. Pam comments that prison sounds better than their current work situation and Kevin wonders why the branch doesn't receive daily outdoors time.

Soon, Michael announces an hour outdoors time will take place in the parking lot. Nearly everyone heads outside to bitter cold temperatures. Michael offers a weightlifting session with a 2.5 lb. dumbbell he produces from the trunk of his Sebring, but a freezing Stanley leads a charge back into the warmth of the office.

Michael soon calls an impromptu meeting in which he dons a do-rag and attempts to "scare you straight" as an ex-con character named "Prison Mike". He speaks with a New York accent, calls Angela a bee-yoch, threatens to shove her up against a wall (and incites Dwight to politely come to her defense with the rest of the staff), says life "in the clink" is no picnic, alludes to violence and rape and singles out Ryan because, in prison, he would be "da belle of da ball", who responds "Michael, please" in total discomfort.

Jim asks Prison Mike where he learned such information and he claims it's a mix of the Internet and prison. Jim asks his crime and Angela is peeved when Dwight asks Prison Mike the worst thing about prison, which he responds by claiming there were Dementors. Andy plays along, and says prison sounds awful. Prison Mike concludes his speech, saying "You got a good life." Martin comments that Michael's performance did not remind him of his time in prison. A frustrated Michael locks everyone in the conference room, who become concerned and begin moving around for an exit. Hannah, still at her desk with the pink-clothed child, ignores Kevin's pleas for assistance.

Pam phones Toby who tells Michael the staff is fully aware a workplace is better than prison and are simply teasing him. A relieved Michael releases his prisoners, including Stanley who never stopped working on his crossword puzzle through the entire incarceration.

Martin cleans out his desk and quits Dunder Mifflin. In his office, Michael remarks to the camera that he thinks Martin is a quitter.

Andy strums "The Rainbow Connection" on his banjo, while singing pig Latin in his "sexy, high, falsetto voice" in an attempt to woo Pam based on Jim's advice. She smiles politely and glances at Jim, who gives the camera his trademark smirk.


Dwight tries to teach fire safety by example, forcing all the doors closed and disabling the phones before setting a fire in an office trash can with a cigarette. He then says, "today smoking will save lives." He returns to his desk and tries to draw attention to the smoke, asking if anyone “smells anything smoky in here?” People don't believe him at first but he clears his throat and Pam notices the smoke. During the subsequent panic, the copy machine is destroyed, Michael smashes a window to call for help and Kevin takes advantage of the havoc to raid the snack machine. Stanley collapses from a heart attack immediately following Dwight’s announcement that the whole thing was a drill. Michael, against the advice of his coworkers, tries to give CPR to an unconscious Stanley, but instead he shoves a wallet in his mouth.

As Dwight's actions could have burned down the building or killed Stanley, Corporate is not amused. Michael and Dwight are called on the carpet in New York, Michael to be reminded of his responsibilities to his subordinates and Dwight to be warned that he is subject to being fired. On the drive back home, Michael revokes Dwight’s status as safety advisor. Back in Scranton, because he hadn't had any idea how to give first aid to Stanley, Michael has the American Red Cross send over an instructor (and most importantly a dummy) to teach CPR. Dwight pouts, Andy sings, and naturally no one learns anything except the lyrics to The Bee Gee's song "Stayin' Alive" - and that Dwight looked very realistic wearing the face of the dummy a la “Silence of the Lambs”. Most importantly, Dwight takes the scenario far too seriously and mutilates the dummy to “harvest the organs.” CFO David Wallace and Corporate HR Kendall, upset that Dwight's mutilating the dummy cost the company $3500, requires Dwight to apologize to his co-workers and get their acknowledgement of his apology in writing. Michael signs the apology without much thought, but the rest of Dwight’s coworkers refuse; everyone except Phyllis is tricked into signing the sheet, mistaking it for an attendance sheet (Phyllis only signs when Dwight has a fake delivery sent to her.)

Michael tries a number of ways to get his employees to unwind, like soft music and meditation, before discovering that he is the number one cause of stress at work. So that people won't feel afraid of him, he insists on a no-holds-barred roast of himself. He actually thought that each speaker would also express love for him, so while the employees had a great time, Michael ends up with his feelings hurt. Later, after taking a "Personnel Day," he recovers and conducts a mini-roast of his employees - initially making them somewhat uncomfortable, before Stanley bursts into laughter about his joke and the rest of the office jumps in.

While all of this has been going on, Andy is convinced that Jim and Pam are film gurus because they are talking about Pam's parents as the three watch a pirated movie, but Andy thinks they're talking about the movie—and by chance, it sounds like it. The episode features movie stars Jack Black, Cloris Leachman, and Jessica Alba in the film, Mrs. Albert Hannaday, which features what some would consider a taboo subject, a love triangle with a "May - late-December" relationship. Andy does not know that Jim and Pam were actually discussing Pam's mother and father's deteriorating relationship. Pam's father stays with Pam and Jim for several days. Pam asks Jim to talk to her father and see if her dad will tell Jim what is wrong with his relationship with Pam's mother. After the two men talk her father says he is going to get his own apartment. Jim has no idea what he could have said to make Pam's father leave her mother for good. Later Pam is stunned by revelations on two fronts: 1) that Jim has been deeply in love with her since the beginning and 2) that her father never felt a deep emotion for her mother - Mr. Beesly realized the latter after hearing the former from the heart, and that was what Jim had said. In a talking heads interview, Pam says that although most children expect their parents to be soulmates, Pam and Jim’s children “will be right about that.” She also says that love affairs and relationships look different from the outside, which is overhead by a frustrated Andy, who (once again) believes she is talking about the film they watched and decides he is not fit to be a movie critic.


Michael explains in his talking head that it's Diversity Day and that a guest speaker is at Dunder Mifflin Scranton to talk about diversity in the workplace. Michael claims that he's wanted this for awhile. Corporate mandated it without Michael having to talk to them about it, though. But Michael still believes it's very important.

Jim is trying to make a sales call when Dwight begins noisily shredding paper. Jim turns off Dwight's surge strip. In retaliation, Dwight disconnects Jim's phone call. Jim explains to the camera that this client makes up 25% of his commission each year. He brings a small bottle of champagne to the office with him to celebrate.

While Pam plays freecell, Michael walks out of his office, then backs up when he sees the corporate representative is heading out of the conference room. He makes sure to walk out at the same time as the other man and make a point of singling out Oscar Martinez as a friend of his. Jim has made contact with his client just in time for Michael to order him into the meeting. Jim is forced to hang up again.

When the meeting begins, Michael tries to take over by talking about how he doesn't even see Stanley as a black man. The representative explains that's not the point here. No one is expected to be color-blind. That's just fighting ignorance with more ignorance.

The Employees meeting for Diversity Day
The meeting for Diversity Day

Then Michael decides everyone should go around and name an ethnicity that he or she finds sexually attractive. Dwight claims he's attracted to whites and Indians. The representative does not think that's a good start. He asks Michael for permission to run this session himself and suggests it would be easier if Michael sits down.

He explains that he asked each of them to write down an incident that offended them. He would like volunteers to assist him. Dwight asks that they don't do anything involving gays.

The representative attempts to take control again from Michael who asks his name. When he reveals that it's Mr. Brown, Michael thinks it's a trick to see if he will call a black man Mr. Brown. Brown assures him that is his name. He goes on to explain that almost everyone wrote down the same incident and asks if everyone is familiar with the Chris Rock routine.

Michael complains to the camera how Chris Rock can do a hilarious routine that makes everyone laugh, but he gets in trouble from corporate when he does the same routine. Michael volunteers to be the joker, Brown doesn't want the person who was the original offender in the same position. Kevin offers to be the joke teller, but doesn't tell it to Michael's liking. Michael interrupts with a loud, profane rendition of the routine before Brown stops him.

While Jim listens to his phone ring, helpless to answer it, Brown sets up an acronym for Hero: Honesty, Empathy, Respect and Open-Mindedness. Dwight adds additional criteria that essentially describes a super-hero, not a hero. Brown passes out forms, asking everyone sign it. Michael refuses because he didn't learn anything.

Privately, Brown explains that they both know he is here because of Michael's behavior. Michael argues that this office is racially advanced enough that it really doesn't need a diversity lecture. Brown tells him it does because it's Michael that caused the need for it. He only needs Michael's signature, but put the whole office through the seminar because he didn't want Michael to feel singled out. Michael feigns offense that this wasn't really about diversity then.

Michael signs the form and then jokes after the fact that he signed it "Daffy Duck".

In the meantime, Jim has tried to call back his client and has to leave a message.

Michael comes out, tears up the pledge, and criticizes Mr. Brown's lack of an "Oprah moment". He wants everyone to get as much done before lunch as possible.

Jim gets nothing but a busy signal right before Michael forces them all into the conference room again.

The HR representative, Toby Flenderson asks if they are going to sit Indian style. Michael orders him out for being offensive. Then he shows the staff a video announcing his new initiative for Diversity Tomorrow and quotes Abraham Lincoln as saying, "If you are a racist, I will attack you with the North".

Kelly Kapoor, a young Indian woman, asks to be excused for a customer meeting. Michael lets her go. He introduces himself and describes his ethnic breakdown, including that he is part Native American. Oscar asks him what part he is. Michael asks about Oscar's ethnicity. Oscar explains his parents were born in Mexico, moved here and he was born. Michael wants to know if there's something he would like to be called besides Mexican. Oscar doesn't understand why Michael would think Mexican is offensive.

Jim, hearing his phone ring, runs out to grab it, but is too late.

Michael hands out cards with different ethnicities on them. The employees are to take a card and then try to guess their pretend ethnicity by how their co-workers treat them.

Pam and Dwight trying to guess each other's race

Stanley is inadvertently given Black. Dwight is Asian but can't guess it based upon people telling him they like his people's food or eat lots of rice. Michael, who's chosen Martin Luther King for himself, insists Pam stir up the pot by getting extreme. Pam hesitantly suggests to Dwight that his people aren't very good drivers. Dwight angrily asks if he's a woman.

Jim goes to Pam's desk where Ryan is watching an online sketch. Ryan mentions how cute she is. Jim agrees, but that Pam is engaged. Ryan says he was talking about the girl in the sketch.

Kevin is Italian and is trying to get Angela to guess that she's Jamaican by using the word "mon" and talking about beaches. Angela won't go any further when he asks if she wants to get high.

Irritated that no one is trying very hard to be offensive, Michael immediately jumps on Kelly when she returns from her meeting by throwing himself into a really offensive Indian stereotype until Kelly slaps him. Michael gets visibly upset. He tells the employees how now Kelly knows what it's like to be a minority.

Jim finally gets ahold of his client who was able to close his sale with Dwight instead who gave him a discount. Jim puts the mini champagne bottle on Dwight's desk.

Pam fall asleep on Jim's Shoulder
Pam falls asleep on Jim's shoulder

Michael continues mumbling about Mr. Brown and corrects Stanley on how to pronounce the word collard in collard greens. When 5 PM arrives, Pam is asleep on Jim's shoulder. He smiles at the camera, then wakes her up so they can go.

He tells the camera that today was a pretty good day.


No longer a temp, Ryan accepts the sales position vacated when Jim transferred to the Stamford branch. Pam looks at Ryan sitting at Jim's former desk and flashes back to Pam and Jim's kiss prior to his transfer. In the flashback, Jim tells Pam he has wanted to do that "for the longest time" and Pam admits the same. She stops Jim from another kiss and tells him she's still getting married and they say their goodbyes. In an interview, Dwight feigns tears over Jim's transfer, before indicating he's glad to be rid of him.

Michael calls Oscar "faggy" for preferring Shakespeare in Love to Die Hard. Michael is asked by Toby not to use such terms, but insists it is a harmless synonym for "lame." ("That's what 'faggy' means!") Toby tells Michael that Oscar is homosexual and finds the word offensive.

Michael approaches Oscar at the copy machine and loudly apologizes and invites him for a beer sometime. In a succession of short on-camera interviews, Oscar reveals that he is gay, Angela indicates she hates the whole idea of homosexuality and the jowls of Kevin's face jiggle as he is unable to manage anything but "Oscar...is gay" through his giggles.

Meanwhile, in Stamford, Jim's transfer came with a promotion and a modern office where his desk includes a window view. Co-worker Andy, who sits at a desk in front of Jim, calls him "Big Tuna" in reference to his first-day lunch, a switch from his daily ham and cheese sandwich in Scranton. Co-worker Karen, who sits at the desk behind Jim, mocks him for repeatedly smirking at the camera and says she doesn't believe he's fitting in. Andy meanwhile, discusses how he doesn't feel threatened by Jim as he thinks he's an ambitious know-it-all, just as he brags about his wild college days at Cornell University.

Back in Scranton, Roy brings Pam lunch in a short, awkward exchange. In an interview, Pam says she got cold feet, called off the wedding, ended the relationship, and moved into her own apartment. As a result, Roy and Pam are making the frozen wedding reception meals their lunch for the next five weeks.

A disheveled Roy is seen in a mug shot as he recalls how being dumped led him into a downward spiral of weight gain, beard growth, and a drunk driving arrest. Roy claims he has recovered, laments mistreating Pam, and vows to win her back. Stanley's only comment on the breakup is that he gave the couple a toaster, was unable to return the discontinued model, and now has two toasters at home.

Dwight and Michael worry about other homosexuals working in the office without their knowledge. Dwight recalls Jim mentioning "gaydar" being available for purchase online, though Dwight is skeptical because he believes Jim a liar. Nonetheless, the pair phones him in Stamford where Jim pretends to check the availability and reports that gaydar is sold out on the Internet. Also in Stamford, Jim recycles a prank he pulled on Dwight by encasing Andy's calculator in Jell-O, with different results: Andy gets violently upset and kicks a wastebasket as Jim silently returns to work, visibly terrified by Andy's reaction.

Kelly approaches Oscar and tells him that he is "so cool" for being gay. Jan informs Michael that he has outed Oscar, a personal decision Michael had no business making while Toby points out that Oscar feels discriminated against by Angela. Employees gather around as Dwight looks at gay pornography at Michael's suggestion. Angela makes a homophobic comment which offends Oscar who bumps her as he walks past, sending Dwight into a brief frenzy.

Michael calls an emergency meeting in the conference room and informs the assembled they are all "homos—homo sapiens". Pam looks to Ryan as she holds back shocked laughter (as she would have done with Jim), and is disappointed when he does not do the same, perhaps had hoped they would begin to have a friendship like Jim and Pam's had been. Michael tells Oscar to come out to the office formally, "right here, however, you want". Oscar does so reluctantly but unemotionally, concluding his confession with, "whatever." Dwight demands that "all the other office gays out themselves or I will do it for them."

Dwight then implies Phyllis might be gay. Phyllis takes offense and announces that she is engaged to Bob Vance of Vance Refrigeration. Several employees congratulate her, and a surprised, jealous Michael says there is hope for everyone. Phyllis retorts that she and her friends thought Michael was gay when they were in high school together. Michael sheepishly defends his school-age sense of fashion. Creed, in an interview, states that while he's never deliberately made love to a man, it's possible that one "slipped in" during the 1960s.

Oscar announces that he can no longer work at the branch and begins to leave, but Michael stops him and tries to hug him as a show of acceptance. Oscar blows up and calls Michael "small," which silences the staff in discomfort and reduces Michael to tears. Oscar apologizes and allows the hug to happen. Believing the hug insufficient, Michael tells the staff to "watch this, and burn this into your brains", and kisses a struggling, reluctant Oscar on the mouth. Dwight, who was seemingly moved by Michael's actions, consequently attempts to kiss Oscar. In interviews, Dwight says he now believes Michael is gay. Michael says any two people who want to should be together. He concludes by saying, "That's what she said...or he said." His facial expressions make it clear he believes he has said something profound.

Pam looks longingly at Ryan's desk, as Jim simultaneously glances at an empty seat next to him as Mr. Brown directs a humorless diversity training in Stamford. Glancing through his office blinds, Michael sees Oscar catch a ride from Gil, and muses, "Oscar's roommate...I wonder if he knows?" Oscar reveals in an interview that Jan gave him three months paid vacation and use of a company car in exchange for signing an agreement not to sue the company about his botched outing. In Oscar's words, "it pays to be gay."

In the final moments, Dwight opens a package from Jim, a novelty "gaydar" machine fashioned from a metal detector and lettered with the prefixes "Homo", "Bi", and "Hetero". He confirms the device on Oscar but is dumbfounded when the device goes off as he inadvertently swipes it across his own belt buckle. Pam smiles to herself.


Charles Miner is now in charge of the Scranton branch, due to the absence of Michael Scott, and seems to dislike Jim, much to Dwight's pleasure. Pam and Michael decide to assemble a 'Dream Team' to get the company started. Michael recommends Ryan, stating, "He's everything I'm not and everything I am," an offer which Pam quickly denies. Michael then states the company already has a meeting later with an investor, making Pam visibly excited. Michael and Pam then decide to search for Vikram, an employee Michael formerly worked with at the telemarketing agency. Back at the office, Andy discovers that Charles loves soccer and soon the whole office is trying to impress him. When Jim says that he plays soccer (from second to fourth grade, he was on the orange team), he soon finds himself being stuck in a soccer game with Charles after work.

With Vikram now part of the company, Michael drives to a bowling alley claiming he has to use the bathroom. When Pam heads inside to see why Michael is taking so long, she discovers him talking to a new bleach-blonde Ryan, who is working at the counter. Michael claims the new company has no files and therefore no proof of his past misconduct, leading Ryan to join them. The Michael Scott Paper Company tries to get the members of a local investment club (one of which is Michael's grandmother) to invest, to which they soon decline, saying the company will never get ahead with the state of the economy. The game back at Dunder-Mifflin then begins, revealing that Jim has no soccer experience, and does not even know how to play. Vikram claims that the investors brought up some good questions, that the company is impractical, and he soon quits and is thrown out of Michael's car.

While playing soccer Jim ducks out of the way of the ball and Phyllis is hit in the face. Pam, sitting in Michael's car, tells him that she was just feeling impulsive and should have never taken the job with him. Michael tells Pam that he works best when people don't believe in him and that he is going to go find an office space for them. The office that Michael finds, turns out to be a former closet in the same building as Dunder-Mifflin.

In the cold open, Pam tells the office not to eat pungent foods, but Dwight refuses. When he is eating an egg, Pam throws up. Andy, Angela, Erin and then everyone else throws up, except for Creed who for some reason eats at a faster rate while watching the staff throw up, Dwight looks in horror, after which Pam gives a look to Dwight.

After giving strict directions not to tell Pam's family about her being pregnant, Jim and Pam head up to Niagara Falls for their wedding, and the rest of the office follows them. After decorating his car to say "Going to a Wedding," Michael and Dwight seek women to hook up with while Andy pursues Erin. Kevin and Oscar meet Pam's sister Penny, who accidentally offends Oscar by thinking Kevin was his boyfriend, Gil. Pam's mother Helene is visibly disturbed at the fact that Pam's father, and Helene's ex-husband, William Beesly has come to the wedding with his new girlfriend who is half his age.

Everyone except Pam's grandmother, Memaw, is aware of Pam's pregnancy, so they are told not to mention it. At the rehearsal dinner, Jim gives a moving and romantic toast to his soon-to-be wife. However, closing the toast, Jim accidentally alludes to Pam's pregnancy. Both Jim and Michael try to cover up the fact but only embarrass themselves further. In a final bid to end the embarrassment, Michael privately tells Memaw that this kind of behavior should be encouraged nowadays and gives her false hope that the baby will be named after her. While walking to the bar, Pam bumps into Angela who likens the visit to kicking Pam in the stomach.

Andy hosts a dance party in his room later that night, with the office staff attending. Andy punctures his scrotum trying to do a split. The guests rouse Pam, the only sober person, to take him to the hospital. Pam reluctantly agrees.

Pam and Jim on the Maid of the Mist

Michael and Dwight try their luck with women at the bar. Dwight, despite embarrassing both of them, is successful in getting Pam's friend Isabel Poreba to spend the night with him. Michael spends the night alone in the ice machine room as he had failed to make a reservation in advance.
Prior to the ceremony, Pam accidentally tears her veil and tearfully phones Jim. They meet in private, where Pam expresses her regret over their choice to invite their families and the office staff. Pam is visibly uplifted when Jim cuts off his tie in an effort to console her. They are then seen running away from the church together.

While everyone in the church wonders where they went, Michael and Helene begin to bond over their failed relationships. Dwight callously rebuffs Isabel's attempts at further contact. The rest of the office staff grow impatient, bickering about their right to take their gifts back.

Jim and Pam finally return to the church after an hour with no explanation of their absence, and the ceremony begins.
Meemaw is seen at the church, indicating Michael's attempts at getting her to stay were successful.

The wedding montage based on the JK Wedding Dance

Michael, Dwight, and others close to Jim and Pam interrupt the ceremony by recreating the dance routines as featured in the JK Wedding Entrance Dance. Despite having asked their guests specifically not to re-enact the video, Jim and Pam react with good humor.
During the dance sequence, a flashback reveals Jim and Pam's adventure during their absence: They are shown boarding the Maid of the Mist, a ferry boat, and being married by the ship's captain below the falls. Jim explains to the camera that he had prepared the ferry marriage in advance after seeing the video, in anticipation of the likely chaos at the ceremony. It being plan C, plan B being the church, and plan A, marrying her a long time ago. The camera then cuts back to Jim holding Pam close to him and with her head on his shoulder, as they look out into the distance at Niagara Falls.

Jim looks at the camera and smiles warmly.

The very end of the episode shows Kevin soothing his feet in the hotel ice machine, while Helene lustfully pulls Michael into her hotel room.


When Deangelo Vickers ends up in a coma, Jo Bennett makes Dwight the interim regional manager before they find a proper replacement. Dwight establishes a strict management style, from making the employees say The Pledge of Allegiance, to setting up firewalls and long passwords to use the office's various machines, and installing antique punch clocks. Jim, who had turned down the temporary manager position believing that they should not be assigned one at all, is especially unhappy with the changes, and begins pranking Dwight by suggesting that he is leading an uprising called "The Fist". In order to impress Jo, Dwight buys a gun, though he is more excited when he receives a holster as a gift from a relative, and uses the gun to accessorize. Pam insists that he put it away, but Dwight accidentally fires the gun right by Andy, causing him temporary hearing loss. He attempts to bribe the office workers into silence with various favors, and Jim insists that Dwight do outlandish things (such as saying, "Shagedelic, baby!") at certain promptings.

Meanwhile, Gabe continues with his attempts to win back Erin. He invites Andy to go to the conference room to speak in private. He breaks down, and Andy promises he won't date Erin again. He confronts Andy with the promise after he sees the two hanging out together, but Andy stands up for himself and embarrasses Gabe by describing his crying fit to Erin. When asked whether or not he wants to date Erin, he does not give a straight answer, and eventually claims that it is between him and his diary.

When Jo comes to visit the branch, Dwight admits to the gun incident. He attempts to divert the blame to his employees, saying that blackmail is a bigger crime than firing a gun accidentally, but Jo takes the position away from him. Jo later puts Creed, who has the most experience and seniority in the office, in charge until a committee composed of Jim, Toby, and Gabe, find a replacement. While Jim tells Dwight that Jo did the right thing, he also compliments Dwight, noting that the office got every single company order out on time when he was in charge.



The episode begins with Dwight trying out a standing desk. Oscar mentions how he tried one but could never find the sweet spot. Jim sees that Dwight is starting to struggle with the desk and makes a statement of how much better Dwight is than everyone else in the office and how Dwight will never sit again. Later, Dwight makes a contraption that allows him to sit at his desk without it being obvious that he is sitting, however, it is clear he is balancing on it. Jim notices this, takes Dwight's wallet out of his pocket, then proceeds to take the cash out of his wallet and throw it on the ground. Dwight mentions how uninspired the prank is and Jim agrees and says Dwight could just easily bend down and pick it up. They then have a brief argument about if Dwight is sitting or standing. Jim states, "You know I have to do this." Dwight responds by saying, "I know." Jim then pushes Dwight causing him to fall.

Robert California tells Andy, with Jim present, that his wife Susan is looking for a job in the office, but he adamantly tells Andy not to give her one. When Susan comes in and looks at the different departments, she decides on accounting. Andy claims the office is already fully staffed, but Robert insists that he gives her a job, in contrast to his previous request, forcing Andy to relent and give her a job. Robert later calls Andy on the phone to order him to get Susan out. Andy asks that everyone in the office treat her poorly to drive her out, which makes everyone uncomfortable as they like her, but end up doing so nevertheless. When Susan notices their behavior, she talks to Robert, who asks Andy to discuss the issues with Susan in the conference room and leaves. Susan eventually realizes it was Robert's idea to drive her away. When they call Robert out, he vehemently denies it. Andy claims that Jim also heard him say he didn't want her working at the office, which Jim overhears, prompting him to escape quickly. Being blocked by the security gate, Jim runs all over the building, but Andy and Robert catch up to him, forcing him to come clean. He does not come clean but says that he enjoys working with his wife Pam. Andy and Jim leave the conference room and after a short while, Robert and Susan leave. In the parking lot, Andy apologizes to Susan and after a brief bit of small talk, Susan asks Andy out on a date, leaving him surprised.

Meanwhile, Dwight opens a gym in the building, which intrigues Darryl, who's been looking to lose weight to impress the new female warehouse worker Val. When Darryl first sees the gym, it is only filled with farming equipment as exercising equipment. Darryl says he needs actual equipment, which Dwight finally gets, but sees that Darryl is barely using it. Dwight asks more employees to join to help motivate Darryl to exercise harder. During a bench-press, Dwight refuses to spot Darryl unless he says his motivation for working out. Darryl finally says it's to impress Val, though Dwight confuses her with male actor Val Kilmer.



A documentary crew gives a firsthand introduction to the staff of the Scranton branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company, managed by Michael Scott.

During a meeting, Jim Halpert tells his boss, Michael, that he couldn't close a sale with the library. Michael closes the sale easily, but accidentally calls the woman he's speaking with, "Sir". He thinks she might have been a smoker.

World's Best Boss
Michael shows his mug

Michael tells the camera that he's worked for Dunder-Mifflin for 12 years and has been Regional Manager for 4. The branch has the entire second floor of the building. He introduces the camera to receptionist Pam Beesly and mentions how much better she looked a couple of years ago. She gives him a fax from corporate which he crumples up and tosses into the trash, calling it his special file for messages from the corporate office. He shows the camera his World's Best Boss mug and tells how he bought it from Spencer Gifts.

Jim tries to explain his job selling paper, but admits it's boring him even talking about it.

Michael comes out of his office and shouts the years-old gag "Whassssuuupp?" to Jim and Dwight who play along.

Michael's direct supervisor, Jan Levinson-Gould, then enters the office for a meeting with Michael. Michael admits he calls her Hillary Rodham Clinton, but not because he's afraid of her. Jan asks if Michael has any questions about the agenda which he claims not to have seen and proceeds to lecture Pam who then reveals, in front of Jan, that Michael threw it away. Michael backpedals that it was just a joke.

Jan explains that corporate doesn't see the point in having both the Scranton and Stamford branches. Michael immediately assumes the worst. Jan tries to assure him that it's not a foregone conclusion that Scranton will be shut down. Michael wonders if Josh, the regional manager at Stamford, is worried about downsizing.

Then Michael takes a call from Todd Packer, the branch's traveling salesman, who, not realizing he's on speakerphone in Jan's presence, calls her "Godzillary" and asks Michael if the carpet matches the drapes. Michael quickly realizes his mistake and mumbles about how inappropriate that was.

Jan concludes the meeting by asking Michael to keep all of this information under wraps for now.

In the break room, Oscar Martinez, Phyllis Lapin, and Stanley Hudson are at a table talking about the possibility of downsizing. Oscar admits he's updating his resume. Angela Martin worries she'll be let go and Kevin Malone agrees. Jim and Pam are too busy laughing about whether or not they will attend Angela's cat party on Sunday.

In the midst of all this, Ryan Howard arrives from the temporary employment agency. Michael demonstrates his humor by imitating Moe, from The Three Stooges and Adolf Hitler. It's clear that Michael's idea of humor is lost on his employees.

Pam admits it wouldn't be the worst thing if she was laid off. She enjoys working with watercolor and oil pencils. Jim likes her work.

Wall of Pencils
Wall of pencils between Jim and Dwight

While Jim is trying to make a sales call, Dwight distracts him by using his ruler to push some of Jim's overlapping papers off of his desk. In retaliation, Jim built a pencil fence between his desk and Dwight's, which Dwight smashes with his phone. Because of this, Jim tells the camera he's not afraid of the downsizing issue. Dwight, too, tells the camera he has no problem with downsizing and that he has been recommending it since he first arrived at Dunder Mifflin.

Pam hands Michael some of his messages. He pretends to act like the Six Million Dollar Man for several long moments. He decides that six million dollars would be a great salary for him and asks Pam's opinion. Pam mentions her salary could use a boost, too. Suddenly, Michael becomes serious, lecturing Pam she should take up her salary concerns with HR if she thinks there's a problem.

The staff is called into the conference room. Dwight, desperate to help, wants to back up Michael as Assistant Regional Manager. Michael will only acquiesce to Assistant to the Regional Manager. Michael explains that he's aware of the rumors and can confirm that Jan has indicated to him that there might be downsizing which could involve either Scranton or Stamford. Both Oscar and Stanley question Michael's assurances that he will not permit this branch to be closed. To change the subject, he tries to field a question from Pam who he claims looks like she wants to ask a question. Pam mentions that, being present in the meeting with Jan, it certainly did sound like Scranton could be shuttered. Michael, who doesn't seem to recognize that this whole meeting is breaking Jan's request for confidentiality, lectures Pam about leaking information. Out in the office, Ryan expresses his concerns by phone that he's hearing rumors the branch might be shut down.

Jim wonders what he will do with all this useless information he's gathered about paper. He also knows Pam's favorite yogurt flavor: mixed berry. Pam admits to the camera that he's right.

Michael introduces Ryan to the office. When he gets to Dwight, he asks him to tell Ryan about his car and his martial arts. Dwight starts to grab some photos of his car when he finds that someone has encased his stapler in Jell-O. He's furious because this is the third time and insists that Michael, as a witness, should discipline Jim. Jim, eating Jell-O, wants to know why Dwight thinks it's him. He and Ryan distract Michael by making dessert puns. Michael can't think of one.

Jim tries to convince Pam to join the gang for some drinks after work. Her fiancé, Roy, one of the warehouse workers, arrives. Pam admits that she and Roy have been engaged for three years. They are supposed to be married in September, but she believes it'll probably not be until Spring. Roy tells her he just wants to go home. She leaves her desk to finish up some work. Jim tries to make small talk, but Roy isn't having it.

Jim tells the camera that he doesn't think he'll be invited to the wedding.

While Michael conveys his management style to Ryan (friend first, boss second), he decides to pull a prank on Pam. When she comes in, he tells her that she's made downsizing easier because he has to fire her for stealing Post-It notes. She denies having stolen anything and bursts into tears. Ryan sits awkwardly until Michael reveals the gag. Pam calls him a jerk and storms out.

Pilot-Jim and Pam
Jim and Pam saying good-bye to each other

Michael tells the camera that people are more important than money. The proudest day of his life was when one of his employees made him the godfather of his child. It didn't work out as they had to fire the guy because he wasn't very good.

Pam and Jim say good-bye at the end of the day. They are interrupted by Roy's angry honking from outside.

Before Jim leaves, he walks into Michael's office and leaves a Jell-O mold with Michael's World's Best Boss mug inside.


Because he is in charge of choosing a health plan for his employees, Michael decides that makes him the equivalent of their doctor.

He wants to choose the Gold Plan which Jan explains that even she doesn't have. With downsizing possible, it's important that Michael chose an inexpensive plan for his employees. Michael, wanting to be liked, isn't enthusiastic about cutting their benefits. Jan tells him that part of being a manager involves giving unpleasant news. This is something he has to do.

Michael tries to give the job to Jim who prefers he focus on his own job. He isn't planning to stay at Dunder Mifflin forever so doesn't really believe he should be acting the part of a manager. He suggests Dwight who accepts wholeheartedly, setting up a temporary workspace in the conference room.

Dwight, who doesn't have any health problems and believes in cutting costs, picks a dirt cheap plan with virtually no benefits. To avoid his employees' complaints, Michael hides out in his office, pretending to have calls that Pam can tell he doesn't. After Jim and Pam try to get Dwight to have more compassion toward his co-workers, the employees gather outside the men's room and confront Michael about the plan.

Michael orders Dwight to make changes and promises the crew a surprise at the end of the day. In the conference room, Dwight orders everyone to write down what diseases they need covered. Jim explains that such information is confidential. Michael leaves the office to figure out what the surprise should be, considering Atlantic City or a trip to a coal mine.

In the meantime, Jim and Pam have fun making up fake diseases to put on the forms. When Dwight recognizes the prank, he accuses Jim who refuses to confess. Jim locks Dwight in the meeting room.

Dwight calls Jan, identifies himself as Assistant Manager and demands the ability to fire Jim. Jan tells him he's not a manager at all. Dwight explains that Michael put him in charge of the health plan and isn't in the office right now. She lectures Dwight, tells him to never call her on her cell phone again and to have Michael call her when he gets back.

When Michael returns, he throws ice cream sandwiches at the staff. They point out that this isn't a very good surprise, considering the day they've been having. Michael assures them it isn't the surprise. He goes into his office and doesn't come out.

Meanwhile, Dwight goes through the questionnaires people submitted and verifies that Meredith Palmer needs coverage for an inverted vagina, Kevin for anal fissures and Angela for dermatitis. Finally he picks a plan so cheap that Oscar likens it to a pay decrease.

At the end of the day, Michael is confronted again by the employees, wanting to know why he put Dwight in charge. Michael pretends not to know that Dwight picked a bad plan and that he did so against his orders. Since it's the end of the day, there's nothing to be done about it now.

They ask about their surprise. While Michael still insists he has one, they walk out as he continues to kill time trying to think of one. Then Dwight tells him Jan wants to him to call her back.



Although time has dragged on, the downsizing rumors at Dunder Mifflin have not ceased. Michael will still not accept that there will be any staff cuts. Dwight feels particularly threatened by the impending crisis, and, in an act of desperation, forms an alliance with his office nemesis Jim. Jim sees the alliance as an opportunity with great potential and agrees as a lark. He immediately enlists Pam's help in the situation.

Meanwhile, Michael tries to boost morale in the office by having an office birthday party for Meredith, even though her birthday is a month away. Since this isn't really about Meredith, Michael has no problem despite ordering an ice cream cake even though she's lactose intolerant. He also agonizes over writing an insulting joke in her birthday card that he thinks will be hilarious. In the meantime, Oscar asks Michael for a donation for his nephew's cerebral palsy walk-a-thon. Michael looks over the $2 and $3 contributions and, feeling generous, signs up for $25. When Jim points out that the dollar amounts are per mile which adds up, Michael goes to Oscar to explain his misunderstanding. Oscar reminds him what a walk-a-thon is and thinks Michael is being cheap for retracting a charitable donation.

Meanwhile, Dwight, following Jim and Pam's efforts, ends up in a box in the warehouse to overhear information. The party falls flat when Michael's insulting jokes fail to amuse Meredith or anyone else.

At the end of the day, after a breakthrough in his pranks on Dwight, Jim giddily grabs Pam's hand in an attempt to explain what has just happened. However, Pam's fiance Roy walks in and immediately assumes Jim is hitting on her. Jim tries to explain that they were just playing a joke on Dwight by pretending to be in an alliance with him. Dwight, not finding it funny, denies any knowledge.



Basketball-Michael after seeing the others ready for basketball game
Michael comes in to work prepared to pit the office staff against the warehouse in a game of basketball, with the losers having to work on Saturday. Michael picks Jim, Ryan and Stanley as "Michael's 'secret weapon'"

Dwight then confronts Michael, and both of them go talk in Michael office. Dwight suggests that he should be on the team, but Michael disagrees, saying that he can't let him play because of his previous behavior. Instead, Michael gives him a temporary charge of handling the holiday and weekend. Dwight takes the position without any doubt.

At his desk, Dwight is busy pretending to plan who's going to work on Saturday. While Jim is babbling about how Dwight is enjoying his small authority, Pam is aware that Dwight can ruin her fiance plans for them.

The game begins and Stanley, despite being black (which is the main reason that Michael chose him), is a horrible player. Furthermore, Michael cannot make a shot, nor is he a fan of passing or defending. During the game, Roy and Jim gradually become aggressive toward each other, with Pam looking on. At a crucial point in the game, Michael is accidentally hit in the face. Michael knew his team was ahead so he claims it is a "flagrant personal intentional foul". He pettily stops the game and declares the office winners since they were winning when the foul occurred. The warehouse finds the call unfair and Michael caves under pressure, conceding the victory to the warehouse staff. As everybody returns to work, Kevin demonstrates his excellent shooting skills.

Afterward, Michael, in a rare moment of heart, tells the office that they don't have to come in on Saturday either. However, his justification does little to calm them: "Like coming in an extra day is going to prevent us from being downsized."



A purse vendor, Katy, comes in to the office to sell purses for the day. While solicitors are generally not welcome in the office, Michael allows her to use the conference room to sell purses because he, as well as some of the other male staff, is attracted to her. Michael continually tries to get Katy interested in him but fails. Michael offers to give Katy a ride after work and is disturbed when he discovers her heading out with Jim, which is the beginning of the Jim-Katy Relationship. The episode also furthers Pam's character development. In the episode, we see her dissatisfaction with Roy as he says he would get with Katy if he wasn't "dating" Pam. Pam angrily reminds him that they are, in fact, engaged and proceeds to storm out of the kitchen. Additionaly, Pam is subtly upset by Jim's revelation that he is going to take Katy out that weekend. 



It's time for "The Dundies", Michael's annual embarrassing awards show for the Dunder-Mifflin Scranton employees, which takes place at the local Chili's restaurant. He thinks they love the awards and his comedy act, but in fact, they're dreaded.

Phyllis, Pam, and Kelly chat and giggle by the water cooler. Dwight asks them what the joke is, and learns that somebody wrote something on the ladies' room wall about Michael. He demands to know what it is, but the women won't tell. Dwight's attempts to determine what is written on the wall are embarrassingly unsuccessful.

Jan tells Michael that corporate will not fund the party, which breaks his hopes of a drunken show. Michael invites friends and family to the show to quiet rumors.

Michael asks Pam to go through the old Dundies footage for highlights. From an earlier Dundies, we see Michael award Pam the "World's Longest Engagement" award. Jim tries to convince Michael to give Pam a different award this year.

The awards begin with Michael attempting to perform a rap, but he can't keep up with the lyrics. Oscars sums up the Dundies "as like a kid's birthday party, where there's nothing for you to do, but the kid's having a good time." As everyone prepares to order, Michael tells them they have to pay for their meals and drinks. Michael's jokes fall flat; Dwight's contributions don't help matters any. Darryl and Roy, concluding that the awards are lame, leave early, taking Pam with them. In the parking lot, Pam and Roy have an argument, and Pam returns to the awards show, just in time for Michael's caricature of a Chinese man named Ping.

While Michael awards Dundies to various members of the office staff, Pam consumes a beer and two margaritas and shows signs of being drunk. As he sings another song, Michael gets heckled by some other customers. Humiliated, Michael decides to wrap it up, but an intoxicated Pam (along with Jim) encourages him to finish the show, which he does. Pam braces herself for her annual "World's Longest Engagement" award, but is relieved to get the "Whitest Sneakers" award. Pam thanks Michael and, after an emotional acceptance speech, drunkenly kisses Jim on the lips.

As Jim recaps the Dundies for the documentary camera, Pam drunkenly falls off her stool. Dwight springs into action, but his assistance is unwelcome. In a talking-head interview, the manager of the Chili's restaurant explains that Pam is no longer welcome at the restaurant chain due to her behavior.

While waiting for designated driver Angela to arrive, Pam admits to Jim that it was she who wrote the graffiti on the ladies' room wall. She also begins to ask Jim a question, but stops herself when she notices the cameras. Jim helps Pam into Angela's car and smiles as he watches them leave.


Michael declares himself "King of Forwards" because he is a master of forwarding what he considers to be funny email to the rest of the office. Michael's "best friend forever" Todd Packer arrives and shares crude and sexist gossip about an upper management scandal, which continues to offend the staff. Ryan is called upon to drive Packer around town because of Packer's "DUI situation". Meanwhile, Pam waits with anticipation for her mother to arrive from out of town.

Toby privately informs Michael that their CFO resigned because of sexual harassment. Consequently, he has been asked by Corporate to hold a five-minute review of the company's sexual harassment policies. Michael interprets this as Corporate cracking down on his inappropriate jokes and is upset that this will put a damper on his easy-going office environment by forcing everybody to "scrutinize every little thing we say and do all day." His indignation rises to outrage when he learns that Corporate is sending down a lawyer to talk to Michael.

Michael goes down to the warehouse to find some dirty jokes that he can use to remind the staff how great jokes can be, but he ends up being sexually harassed himself and runs away in embarrassment. Upstairs, Toby's presentation goes well, and Pam asks everyone to keep it clean when her mother arrives. Just as Toby is wrapping up, Michael arrives with a blow-up sex doll. He makes a speech on not losing the sexual humor around the office, but fails to get the support of the employees.

For laughs, Michael and the warehouse staff watch the sexual harassment video in the conference room. Meanwhile, Dwight asks Toby questions about the female anatomy. Just as Michael shares a crude remark about the video with the rest of the staff, Jan and the lawyer arrive from Corporate.

Todd Packer returns to the office as Michael meets with Jan and the lawyer, upset that their crackdown on his inappropriate e-mail forwarding means that he basically can't say anything in the office at all. In a talking head interview, Michael defensively explains that as the King of Forwards, he's just forwarding the jokes; he didn't write them and therefore cannot be held responsible for their content. He elaborates, "You wouldn't arrest a guy who's just delivering drugs from one guy to another." Michael emerges from the meeting to announce that he can no longer be friends with his staff and that he will talk only about work. As a result, he will never tell another joke again. Jim goads Michael into breaking his vow immediately.

Jan calls Michael back into his office for another meeting as Michael's "free speech" lawyer arrives. Jan explains that as the corporate lawyer, Mr. O'Malley's job is protect the company and upper-level management, including Michael. Michael is instantly relieved that he's not in trouble.

Just as Michael throws away the sex doll, Pam's mother arrives and after Roy leaves, she asks in whispers (and is shushed by an embarrassed Pam) which one is Jim. Todd Packer shares some more inappropriate jokes with the employees and Michael tries to draw the line, but points the blame at Kevin. He gets teased by Packer and ends up saying how beautiful Phyllis is and saying the only thing he's worried about "is gettin' a boner."


Ryan comes into work early at Michael's request, merely to bring him his breakfast. When Michael tells him the office is his for the next few hours, Ryan opts to spend those hours sleeping in his car until work starts.

Michael announces that he will be becoming a homeowner. Jim "dies" of boredom, and to revive him, he and Pam try to throw things in Dwight's coffee mug. Michael prepares to leave to sign the final papers for his new condo and Dwight insists that he join him as a second voice, to which he reluctantly agrees. Michael assigns Pam to have the office work on the expense reports for the afternoon. Jim asks Oscar about the expense reports and notices material on his desk that reads "2005 SEASON" as well as a small scoreboard. Oscar explains that he and Kevin play a paper football game when Michael's out (or when they're bored). Jim joins in and Kevin explains the game is called "Hate Ball", since Angela hates when they play it. Other games they play are "Who Can Put The Most M&Ms In Their Mouth?" and "Dunderball." Meanwhile, Michael admires his condo from the street, until he notices he's looking at the wrong house.

At the condo, Michael's agent Carol introduces him to Bill, the head of the condo association and makes a Mr. Bill reference. Dwight talks about his 60-acre beet farm that he runs with his cousin Mose. He begins asking questions about the house, and Carol and Bill start to think that he and Michael are homosexual. Back at the office, Jim tries to get Stanley to join in the fun, but he outright refuses (although he is seen enjoying the games later). Michael shows the camera crew the master bedroom at the condo and starts bragging. Dwight starts to rain on his parade, bringing up the condo's weaknesses, which starts to worry Michael. In the office, Jim and Pam begin the opening ceremonies of the "Games of the 1st Dunder Mifflin Olympiad" in the lunch room. Jim explains they will be competing for medals made of gold, silver and bronze yogurt lids" that Pam made herself. Angela is annoyed by the games.

At the condo, Michael starts to regret his purchase when he realizes he got a 30-year mortgage and Dwight makes the situation sound even worse. Michael takes a breather before he signs the contract. Meanwhile, Jim and Pam explain the Flonkerton race (where full paper boxes are strapped to your feet) and Phyllis challenges Kevin. Michael starts complaining about the condo to Carol and demands a price reduction, but she explains he will lose $7,000 if he walks away, so he signs. Dwight and Michael laugh about the "saps stuck at the office" as we see Phyllis narrowly defeating Kevin in Flonkerton.

At the condo, Michael tells Dwight he is going to "let" him move into his third bedroom and pay rent. Dwight starts asking Michael a series of questions, which become increasingly strange. In the office, Angela tells Pam about a game she plays called "Pam Pong", where she counts how many times Jim goes to Pam's desk. The questions continue at the condo, which pushes Michael to the point of revoking his offer, much to Dwight's relief. At the office, the employees gather around the elevator to bet who will arrive next and Ryan wins. Pam shows Jim a box of items for the closing ceremonies and Angela marks off another tally for "Pam Pong", to Pam's annoyance. Toby and Oscar race with full coffee mugs around the office, but the games immediately stop when Michael and Dwight return, much to Jim's disappointment.

Things get quiet again. Jim fills out the expense reports, which only take five minutes. Ryan throws away Pam's medals which she sadly notices. Pam has 59 voicemails, but attends to Jim's insistence that the closing ceremonies will occur at 5pm. Jim brings out Michael to join in the ceremonies and gives him the gold medal in front of the entire staff for closing on his condo. Michael is moved to tears. A perplexed Dwight gets the silver medal. Jim gets the bronze. Pam plays the national anthem and releases the origami paper doves she made for the ceremonies. The employees smile and Michael wells up with tears.