Pee-Wee Herman wakes from a dream in which he and his prized bicycle have won the Tour de France. After having breakfast, Pee-Wee decides to ride his bike down to the local shopping center. However, he doesn't get far before he meets up with Francis Buxton, a local and spoiled overgrown rich kid who wants to buy Pee-Wee's bike as a birthday gift for himself. Pee-Wee rebukes this offer and ridicules Francis, before cycling off, with Francis shouting after him that "he'll be sorry."

Pee-Wee arrives at the shopping center, where he chains his bike to a clown statue, before stopping off at a nearby magic shop. Next, he goes to the local bicycle shop to procure a new horn. While there, an employee and friend of Pee-Wee's named Dottie, attempts to ask Pee-Wee on a date, to which he refuses. Pee-Wee then returns to his bike... only to find the chains destroyed and his bike gone!!!

Pee-Wee goes to the police, but they are unable to help him. When asked if anyone might have really wanted his bike, Pee-Wee surmises that Francis Buxton must have taken it. Pee-Wee sneaks into the Buxton's mansion, and forces Francis to confess. However, Francis' father explains that Francis couldn't have stolen the bike, since Francis and his father have been at the mansion setting up his birthday train set all morning.

Pee-Wee is still determined to find his bike, and begins to post up fliers and goes on the radio to alert people about it. Unknown to Pee-Wee, Francis did have a hand in the theft of his bike, as he had hired a guy to steal the bike for him. However, with Pee-Wee not giving up the search, Francis pays the hired guy extra to get rid of the bicycle.

Down on his luck, Pee-Wee wanders the rainy streets of town and visits a phony psychic, who convinces Pee-Wee that his bike is in the basement of The Alamo. Pee-Wee then sets out on his epic journey to get there.

His first encounter is with an escaped criminal named Mickey, who was arrested for tearing the tag off a mattress. Even with his criminal background, Pee-Wee still takes a shine to Mickey, and helps him get past a police roadblock. That evening, while driving the stolen car they are in, Pee-Wee almost gets them killed when he tries to swerve around a series of turns in the road. It is shortly after this that Mickey orders Pee-Wee out of the car, before driving off into the dark night.

Pee-Wee next hitches a ride from a rather strange trucker named Large Marge, who tells him a creepy story about "the worst accident ever seen" which happened 10 years earlier on the road they are traveling on. After dropping him off at a truck stop restaurant, and telling Pee-Wee to say "Large Marge sent you," Pee-Wee is further shocked to find that Large Marge was killed ten years to the day... and that he was riding with her ghost.

After the ordeal, Pee-Wee attempts to have a meal, but finds that his wallet is gone (which was stolen earlier by the phony psychic). After washing and drying dishes in the kitchen to pay for his meal, a friendly waitress named Simone asks him to watch the sunrise with her. They enter into a giant Tyrannosaurus Rex statue nearby, and while watching the sunrise, Simone and Pee-Wee discuss their dreams. Simone's dream is to one day go to Paris, but she feels her boyfriend Andy won't let her. Pee-Wee encourages her to follow her dreams. However, as they exit the statue at dawn, the hulking Andy is waiting to clobber Pee-Wee, thinking 'the worst' has happened.

Pee-Wee escapes on a nearby freight train, where he runs into a hobo named Jack, who then proceeds to sing all manner of songs until Pee-Wee finally jumps from the train... which just happened to have arrived in San Antonio, Texas.

Pee-Wee quickly seeks out the Alamo, only to find that it doesn't have a basement! Dejected and back to square one, Pee-Wee attempts to take a bus home, when he runs into Simone, who explains that she left Andy, and is planning to go to Paris and follow her dreams. Shortly after she leaves, her jealous boyfriend Andy appears, and on seeing Pee-Wee, gives chase.

The chase leads them to a rodeo, where Pee-Wee rides a bull, which later chases off Andy. However, Pee-Wee suffers a slight concussion, and lapses into a temporary state of amnesia.

Wandering the road lonely and lost, Pee-Wee next visits a biker bar to make call for a taxi where the rough motorcyclists notice him and then throw him out. After accidentally knocking over their bikes, the bikers are intent on killing Pee-Wee, but give into his 'last request,' and watch as he dances to the song "Tequila." Having won them over, the bikers then give Pee-wee one of their motorcycles, and send him on his way. Unfortunately, Pee-Wee's first time on a motorcycle proves disastrous, and he crashes shortly thereafter.

After being rushed to the hospital, Pee-Wee has a strange dream about a group of clown-faced doctors trying to repair his bicycle and then having it dropped in a flaming cauldron, with Francis nearby, dressed as the Devil. Pee Wee wakes up a little later to see a television program, showing his bike had been donated to a child actor on the Warner Brothers studio lot. Immediately regaining his memory, Pee-Wee heads to Hollywood, California. After sneaking into the studio's backlot and disguising himself as a nun, he steals the bicycle from the set.

After leading the studio's security on a wild chase through various sound stages, Pee-Wee manages to escape from the studio, but not before finding a burning pet store nearby. Pee-Wee manages to rescue almost all the animals, but in the wake of his heroism, is arrested by the police for his transgressions on the studio lot.

However, after hearing his side of the story and events, one of the studio's executives sees the potential for a movie based on Pee-Wee's 'big adventure.' Pee-Wee agrees, only to have the film made into an action film, of which Pee-Wee himself is relegated to a cameo as a hotel bellhop with a dubbed-over voice. Even so, Pee-Wee is thrilled, and invites all his friends and people he met on his trip to view the picture at the local drive-in.

Francis even shows up, persuading a group of the press of what "good friends" he and Pee-Wee are. Francis even attempts to sit on Pee-Wee's bike for a photo-op. Pee Wee of course wants no part of it but realizes his opportunity to have his revenge and invites Francis on. With the brat in place, Pee Wee triggers the bike's ejection seat and Francis is sent hurtling skyward.

After this, Pee-Wee and Dottie leave the drive-in, with Pee-Wee admitting he doesn't need to see the whole film, since he already lived it.

In a sleepy little town in New England, we meet Barbara and Adam Maitland, a couple who have chosen to take a vacation by staying at home. However, the realtor who sold them the house, Jane, tries to entice them to sell the house, since it seems too big for just a couple. The Maitlands reject her pleas and head to town. On the way home they swerve to avoid a dog, which sends them into a river where they drown.

Unaware that they are dead, the Maitlands return to the house, unsure how they got back so quickly. Adam decides to go back outside to 'retrace their steps,' but finds himself on a strange desert planet inhabited by striped sandworms. When he returns to the house, Barbara says he was gone for two hours and shows him a book that she found on a table, Handbook for the Recently Deceased.

Time passes relatively quickly, and soon, the Maitlands' house is sold again (under Jane's watchful eye) to the Deetzes, a New York family composed of Charles, Delia, and their daughter Lydia. While Charles wishes for a quiet respite from the hustle and bustle of New York, Delia can't stand the simple life, and hires a decorator named Otho to make the house more 'livable' and more to her tastes.

Adam and Barbara try to scare the Deetzes, but all their efforts are for naught, as it seems that the living can't see the dead. They take refuge in the attic, where Adam locks the door. However, Lydia finds a skeleton key and tries to open the door. As Adam and Barbara foil her attempts, a TV in the attic comes to life, advertising the services of someone named Beetlejuice, who claims to be able to scare the living.

Consulting the handbook, Adam creates a door that takes him and Barbara to a waiting room in the afterlife, filled with others who have met rather gruesome fates. They are shown to a special room, which reveals their home after it has been redecorated by Delia and Otho. It is here that they are introduced to their case worker Juno, who chastises them for their haunting methods and cautions them not to take the advice of the person they saw on the television.

Returning to the house, Adam and Barbara dress up in sheets to try and scare Charles and Delia, but their attempt fails again. Annoyed with the spooky noises, Lydia finds them, and the two are amazed when they remove the bedsheets and realize she can see them! Lydia reveals that she found their handbook, and found a passage that explains how 'live people ignore the strange and unusual,' something she considered herself to be.

The Maitlands enlist Lydia to help get the Deetzes out of their house, but no one believes her. Not sure what to do, Barbara notices something in the model of the town in the attic: a glowing light around a small grave that appears to belong to Beetlejuice. She says his name three times, and she and Adam are whisked into the model, where they unearth Beetlejuice's body. Once they've done so they regret it, as Beetlejuice is a rather crazy, uncouth and insane ghoul. Turned off by his personality, they resolve to scare the Deetzes themselves.

At a dinner party Delia throws to show her sculptures and other art pieces, the entire group ends up singing 'The Banana Boat Song,' and the shrimp dish in front of them turns into grasping hands. The Maitlands think they've finally succeeded, only to find that their antics have actually amused the Deetzes. The Deetzes send Lydia to bring them down, and when they refuse, everyone clambers to the attic, demanding that the Maitlands show themselves. They find no one there, but Charles is entranced by the miniature of the town, and Otho finds and takes the handbook.

Leaving the attic, Charles feels that there is a lucrative business venture just waiting to happen. However, his cheerfulness turns to horror as Beetlejuice transforms into a large snake, freaking out the family by knocking Otho down the stairs and dropping Charles to the floor below. Barbara manages to call the snake off by uttering Beetlejuice's name three times. Lydia is distraught, thinking that the snake was the Maitlands intending to do more than just scare them.

The Maitlands are brought before Juno again, who takes them to task for breaking a number of rules: having photos taken of themselves, letting Beetlejuice out, and letting Otho get hold of the handbook. Juno encourages the Maitlands to work harder to scare the Deetzes, and Barbara and Adam contort their features into grotesque forms. However, Barbara has some apprehensions, as she likes Lydia.

Meanwhile, Lydia grows so upset that she writes a suicide letter. Going to the attic to say goodbye to the Maitlands, she encounters Beetlejuice in the model. Beetlejuice tries to convince her that he can help her find the Maitlands if she says his name three times. Lydia is almost tricked into saying this, until she realizes that Beetlejuice was the snake, and doubts if he really can help her find the Maitlands. Just then, Adam and Barbara appear, and Lydia explains what was about to happen. Lydia, feeling distraught to be living, tells them of her wish to be dead. Barbara talks her out of these thoughts, and tells her that they've decided to not scare the family, and allow them to stay.

Just then, Otho and Charles appear in the attic; Lydia and the Maitlands hide. Otho and Charles carry Adam's model of the town downstairs, where they give Charles' business associate Maxie Deen an overview of Charles' plan to turn the town into a paranormal-themed attraction. Charles also requests that Lydia produce the Maitlands for their guests, but when she refuses, Otho explains that he has a way.

Using the handbook and the Maitlands' wedding clothes, Otho performs a seance that forces the couple to appear before them. However, this causes the Maitlands to deteriorate, their forms reverting to their decaying corpses.

Frantic, Lydia rushes to the model and sees Beetlejuice in the graveyard. She begs him to help her. Beetlejuice agrees on the condition that Lydia marries him. She agrees to this, and the Maitlands are saved. However, Beetlejuice then holds Lydia to her word, and holds Charles and Delia hostage as 'witnesses,' as Otho escapes.

Both Adam and Barbara struggle to stop Beetlejuice, who sends Adam into the model and Barbara to the sandworm planet. Through a joint effort, they do away with Beetlejuice and save Lydia.

In the aftermath, the Maitlands and the Deetzes co-occupy the house, and Lydia is much more cheerful in her new environment.

One evening, an elderly woman tells her granddaughter a bedtime story of where snow comes from, by telling her the story of a young man named Edward, who has scissors for hands, the creation of an old Inventor. The Inventor's final result was a humanlike young boy who had everything except for hands, but the Inventor suffered a heart attack and died while in the act of giving a pair of real hands to Edward, leaving him "unfinished" forever.

Many years after Edward was created, local Avon saleswoman Peg Boggs visits the decrepit Gothic mansion on the hill where Edward lives. There, she finds Edward alone, and upon realizing he is virtually harmless she decides to take him to her home. Edward becomes friends with Peg's young son Kevin and her husband Bill. He later falls in love with the Boggs' beautiful teenage daughter, Kim, despite her initial fear of him.

Peg's neighbors are impressed by Edward's adept hedge-trimming and hair-cutting skills (both of which he does with his scissor-hands), but two of the townspeople, a religious fanatic named Esmeralda and Kim's boyfriend, Jim, are not impressed. One of the housewives in the neighborhood, Joyce, an ageing seductress, suggests that Edward opens a hair-cutting salon with her. While examining a proposed site, she attempts to seduce him in the back room, causing Edward to leave in a state of panic.

Wanting money for a van, Jim takes advantage of Edward's ability to pick locks, and uses this as an attempt to break into his parents' house. The burglar alarm sounds and everyone except Edward flees, despite Kim's angry insistence that they return for him. Edward is arrested, but is released when a psychological examination reveals that his isolation allowed him to live without a sense of reality and common sense. At the same time, the arresting officer befriends him. Meanwhile, infuriated by Edward's rejection, Joyce exacts revenge by claiming that he tried to "rape" her. This, added to the "break-in", causes many of the neighbors to question his personality and, therefore, ruin his popular reputation. During the Christmas season, Edward is feared and outcasted by almost everyone around him except the Boggs family, resulting in the family becoming outcasts as well.

While the family is setting up Christmas decorations, Edward creates an angel ice sculpture. The shavings create an effect of falling snow, which Kim dances under. Jim calls out to Kim, distracting her, and Edward accidentally cuts her hand. Jim says that Edward had intentionally harmed her and attacks him. Edward runs away, tearing the clothes Peg gave him, and wanders the neighborhood in a rage. Kim, fed up with Jim's behavior towards Edward, breaks up with him and he goes to his friend's van to get drunk. While Peg and Bill search for Edward, he returns and Kim greets him with a hug. When Kevin is almost run over by Jim's drunk friend, Edward pushes him out of the way, but cuts his face, causing witnesses to think he was attacking him. When the police arrive, Edward flees to his hilltop mansion and the neighbors form an angry mob, led by Joyce, and follow, despite Peg and Bill's pleas. Officer Jim tries to deceive everyone by firing a few shots into the air to give the impression that Edward is dead, but the mob refuses to listen and they continue to the mansion to see if Edward really is dead.

Kim runs to the mansion and reunites with Edward. Jim follows her, attacks Edward and angers him when Jim brutally assaults Kim. Edward stabs Jim in the stomach and pushes him out a window to his death. Kim confesses her love for Edward and shares a kiss with him as they say goodbye. Returning downstairs, Kim lies to the townspeople saying that Edward and Jim killed each other in the fight. She tells them that the roof caved in on them and shows them a disembodied scissor-hand similar to that of Edward's. Shocked and saddened over his death, the neighbors return home. At the same time, the guilty Joyce realizes what her lies have done.

The elderly woman (who is actually revealed to be Kim in her old age) finishes telling her granddaughter the story, saying that she never saw Edward again. She chose not to visit him because she wanted him to remember her the way she was in her youth. She also mentions that Edward is still alive, seemingly immortal since he is artificial and can never age, and he "creates snow" from his ice sculptures, which falls upon the neighborhood below. She tells her granddaughter that "Sometimes you can still catch me dancing in it." While Edward creates more ice sculptures, a flashback of a young Kim is shown dancing under the snow falling from the angel ice sculpture above her.

In 1799, New York City police constable Ichabod Crane is dispatched to the upstate Dutch hamlet of Sleepy Hollow, which has been plagued by a series of brutal decapitations: a wealthy father and son, and a widow. Received by the insular town elders-wealthy businessman Baltus Van Tassel; town doctor Thomas Lancaster; the Reverend Steenwyck; notary James Hardenbrook; and magistrate Samuel Philipse-Ichabod learns that locals believe the killer is the undead apparition of a headless Hessian mercenary from the American Revolutionary War who rides a black steed in search of his missing head.

Ichabod begins his investigation, skeptical of the paranormal story. Boarding at the home of Baltus Van Tassel and his wife, Lady Van Tassel, he is taken with Baltus' spiritual daughter, Katrina. When a fourth victim is killed, Ichabod takes the victim's son, Young Masbath, under his wing. Ichabod and Masbath exhume the victims on a tip from Philipse, learning that the widow died pregnant; Ichabod witnesses the Horseman killing Philipse shortly after. He, Young Masbath and Katrina, venture into the Western Woods, where a crone living in a cave reveals the location of the Horseman's grave at the "Tree of the Dead." He digs up the Horseman's grave and discovers the skull has been taken, deducing that it has been stolen by someone who now controls him and that the tree is his portal into the living world.

The Horseman then kills the village midwife and her family, as well as Katrina's suitor Brom when he attempts to intervene; Ichabod hypothesizes that the Horseman is attacking select targets linked by a conspiracy. He and Masbath visit Hardenbrook, who reveals that the first victim, Peter Van Garrett, had secretly married the widow, writing a new will that left his estate to her. Ichabod deduces that all the victims are either beneficiaries or witnesses to this new will, and that the Horseman's master is the person who would have otherwise inherited the estate: Baltus, a Van Garrett relative.

Katrina, upon discovering the accusation, burns the evidence. Hardenbrook commits suicide, and Steenwyck convenes a town meeting to discredit Ichabod, but Baltus bursts into the assembly at the church, announcing that the Horseman has killed his wife. The Horseman attacks the church, but is unable to enter. In the chaos, the remaining elders turn on and attack each other: Steenwyck and Lancaster are killed, and the Horseman harpoons Baltus through a window, dragging him out of the church and acquiring his head.

Initially concluding that Katrina controls the Horseman, Ichabod discovers that her diagram, which he believed summoned the Horseman, is really one of protection, and additionally finds a post-mortem wound on "Lady Van Tassel's" body. Lady Van Tassel, alive and well, then reveals herself to Katrina, and explains her true heritage from an impoverished family evicted years ago by Van Garrett when he favored Baltus and Katrina instead. She swore revenge against Van Garrett and all who had wronged her, pledging herself to Satan if he would raise the Horseman to avenge her, and also to claim the estate uncontested. Manipulating her way into the Van Tassel household, she used fear, blackmail, and lust to draw the other elders into her plot. Having eliminated all other heirs and witnesses - and having killed her sister, the crone, for aiding Ichabod - she summons the Horseman to finish Katrina.

Ichabod and Masbath rush to the windmill as the Horseman arrives. After an escape that destroys the windmill and the subsequent chase to the Tree of the Dead, Ichabod throws the Horseman's skull to him. Freed, and with his head restored, the Horseman spares Katrina and attacks Lady Van Tassel, giving her a bloody kiss and returning to Hell with her in tow, fulfilling the deal. His faith restored, Ichabod returns to New York with Katrina and Young Masbath, just in time for the new century.

The film is set in an unspecified Victorian British village. Victor Van Dort, son of a nouveau riche merchant, and Victoria Everglot, daughter of bankrupt aristocrats, are engaged by their families to marry. When they meet each other for the first time, they like what they see. After the shy, clumsy Victor bungles a wedding rehearsal, he practices his wedding vows in a forest, placing the wedding ring on what looks like a tree branch.

The branch is actually the finger of a deceased bride who is so thrilled by the prospect of marriage that she rises from the grave and spirits Victor to the Land of the Dead. In the surprisingly festive afterlife, Victor learns that his new fiancee's name is Emily and that she was murdered in the woods on the night of her elopement.

Victor, wanting to get back to Victoria, convinces the magical Elder Gutknecht to send him and Emily temporarily to the Land of the Living under the pretext of introducing Emily to Victor's parents. Once back home, Victor rushes to see Victoria and confesses his love. Emily feels betrayed and drags Victor back to the Land of the Dead.

Victoria tells her parents that Victor is in trouble, but they believe she has lost her mind and lock her up in her bedroom. She attempts to escape, but to no avail. With Victor gone, Victoria's parents plan to marry her off to a presumably wealthy stranger named Lord Barkis Bittern.

Emily is devastated at first by Victor's deceit, but eventually realizes that Victor and Victoria probably belong together. Victor apologizes to Emily for lying to her.

Victor's recently deceased coachman appears in the afterlife and tells him about Victoria's impending wedding to Lord Barkis. Victor, feeling betrayed, decides to end his own life so he can properly marry Emily. The dead go "upstairs" to the Land of the Living to hold Victor and Emily's wedding in the town church. At first, the living are terrified, but their fear dissipates once they recognize their departed relatives and loved ones.

Victoria hurries to the church and finds Victor about to drink poison. Emily spots Victoria and stops him. Victor and Victoria joyfully reunite, but Lord Barkis interrupts the festivities to remind them that Victoria is now his wife. Lord Barkis attempts to kill Victor with his sword, but Emily takes the blow herself. She then recognizes Lord Barkis as her former fiancé, who murdered her for her dowry and intended the same fate for Victoria. Emily demands he leave. Before he goes, he proposes an insulting mock-toast to Emily. He drinks the poison meant for Victor and dies. The dead gleefully drag him underground while he screams in horror.

Emily sets Victor free of his vow to marry her. Then, she transforms into a swarm of butterflies which fly away.

Benjamin Barker, a skilled barber, is falsely charged and sentenced to a life of hard labor in Australia by the corrupt Judge Turpin, who lusts after Barker's wife Lucy. Now under the assumed name "Sweeney Todd", Barker returns to London with sailor Anthony Hope. At his old Fleet Street lodgings above Mrs. Nellie Lovett's pie shop, he discovers that Lucy, having been raped by Turpin, has poisoned herself, and his teenage daughter Johanna is now Turpin's ward, and like her mother before her, is the object of his unwanted affections. Nellie has kept Todd's silver barber knives hidden in the Barkers' old room, which is supposedly haunted. Todd vows revenge, reopening his barber shop in the upstairs flat.

While roaming London, Anthony spots Johanna and falls in love with her, but is ejected from the Judge's house by Turpin and his associate, Beadle Bamford. Far from being discouraged, the sailor becomes determined that the pair will elope. Meanwhile, Todd, during a visit to the marketplace, denounces a fraudulent hair tonic by faux-Italian barber Adolfo Pirelli, and later humiliates him in a public shaving contest. Pirelli and his boy assistant Toby visit Todd's barbershop; Lovett keeps Toby occupied downstairs, while in the parlor Pirelli reveals himself to be Todd's former assistant and attempts to blackmail him into paying him half of Todd's earnings or he will reveal Todd's real identity. Instead of giving Pirelli a pay off Todd murders him to protect the secret of his true identity.

Turpin, intending to propose to Johanna, pays a visit to Todd's parlor to groom himself into Johanna's ideal suitor. Recognizing his tormentor, Todd relaxes the judge while preparing to slit his throat. Before he can do so, they are interrupted by Anthony, who, unaware of Turpin's presence, bursts in and reveals his plan to elope with Johanna. Turpin leaves enraged, vowing to never return. His plan thwarted, Todd has an epiphany, and decides to vent his murderous rage upon his customers while waiting for another chance to kill Turpin. He is indiscriminate about his victims he believes that he is punishing the corrupt aristocracy for their exploitation of those below them and, at the same time, saving the lower classes from their misery.

Lovett becomes his willing accomplice, suggesting they dispose of the bodies by baking them into pies to improve her business. Todd enthusiastically agrees, and rigs his barber's chair with a pedal-operated mechanism, which deposits his victims through a trap door into Lovett's bakehouse. As the weeks pass, Todd's murders accumulate (although he is shown sparing a man who brings his wife and daughter). Meanwhile, Anthony begins to search for Johanna, who was sent by Turpin to Fogg's insane asylum as punishment for her refusal to marry him.

The barbering and pie-making business prospers financially, and Lovett takes in young Toby. Anthony finally discovers Johanna's whereabouts and, following Todd's plan, poses as a wig-maker's apprentice, allowing him access to the asylum to put a rescue plan into action. As Anthony is given a short tour of the asylum, he becomes aware that his guide has been using the female inmates for his own profit; after freeing Johanna, he chooses to lock the guide in with the inmates, who fall upon him with murderous intent. Todd's motive for assisting is to lure Turpin back to the barber shop, and he sends Toby to the courthouse to let the judge know where he will find Johanna. Toby has become wary of Todd, and when he returns he tells Lovett of his distrust, unaware of her complicity in his crimes. He promises to protect Mrs. Lovett, whom he has come to love as a surrogate mother. Beadle Bamford arrives at the barber shop and is murdered by Todd, and Lovett informs Todd of Toby's suspicions. The pair search for Toby, whom Lovett has locked in the basement bakehouse to keep him out of the way. He is nowhere to be found, having hidden in the sewers after seeing the Beadle's body drop into the room from the trapdoor above, as well as finding fingers in a pie, clothing and body parts in a fireplace. Meanwhile, Anthony brings a disguised Johanna to the shop, where she hides herself in a trunk in a corner of the room.

An insane beggar woman who has been pestering Todd, Lovett and Anthony throughout the film now makes her way into the shop. As Todd enters, she claims that she recognizes him. Just then, Turpin's voice is heard. Todd quickly slits the beggar woman's throat and deposits her body through the trap door. As Turpin enters, Todd lies to him that Johanna had repented, and offers a free shave. Todd then reveals his true identity and stabs Turpin in the neck numerous times before finally slitting his throat and dropping him through the trap door. As Johanna peeks out of the trunk, Todd spots her and prepares to slit her throat as well, not recognizing her as his daughter. A scream from Lovett diverts him to the basement, where she tells him that Turpin had still been alive and tried to grab at her dress before bleeding to death. Viewing the corpses in the light of the bakehouse fire, Todd discovers that the beggar woman was his wife, Lucy, whom he had believed to be dead based on Lovett's account of the poisoning. Todd realizes that Lovett knew Lucy was alive. Lovett points out that she never said Lucy died; and, after attempting to convince Sweeney that she misled him for his own good, she confesses she lied because she loves him and would be a better wife than Lucy ever was. Todd forgives her, waltzing maniacally with her around the bakehouse before hurling her into the open oven. He watches her burn as he shuts the oven door and locks it. He returns to Lucy and cradles her dead body as Toby emerges from the sewer, picks up the discarded razor, sneaks up behind the barber, and slits Todd's throat (Todd appears to hear him, but he simply raises his neck, and allows Toby to kill him.) The film ends with Todd bleeding over his dead wife as Toby walks away.

The film begins with a voice-over prologue from Barnabas Collins: When Barnabas was 10-years-old in the year 1752, the Collins family left Liverpool, England to settle in the New World, where they established the seashore town of Collinsport in Maine and their foundation manor of Collinwood. In 1776, the adult Barnabas, then a charming aristocrat, denies the affections of his French maid Angelique Bouchard. When his parents meet a mysterious death, he learns that Angelique is a witch, but before he can do anything she hypnotizes his lover Josette duPres to commit suicide by jumping off Widows Hill, a lofty jagged cliff. Driven beyond endurance, he too jumps off the cliff, but Angelique curses him to be a vampire to make his suffering endless. She then reveals his monstrous nature to the residents of Collinwood, who turn on him and lock him in a box, which is buried in a lonely forest.

In 1972, a governess, named Victoria Winters, arrives at Collinwood by train from New York City. She has been hired by Elizabeth Collins Stoddard, the current family matriarch, to oversee her young nephew David; the boy lost his mother and apparently his mind, as he appears to talk to her. Victoria also meets the other members of the family: David's shifty father Roger, Elizabeth's mean-tempered teenage daughter Carolyn, David's alcoholic psychiatrist Dr Julia Hoffman, and the servants Mrs. Johnson the housekeeper and Willie Loomis the gamekeeper. That night, as she settles in she spots a familiar specter, who cryptically informs her of an impending arrival...

That night, a group of construction workers dig up Barnabas's box, and he bursts out and feeds on all of them. He stumbles through 1972 Collinsport, fazed by the new world around him, but is able to get back to Collinwood. He proves his identity to Elizabeth by revealing to her a secret vault in the manor, filled with treasure; he explains to her, however, that all he wants is to get back his home and family. Elizabeth agrees to let him stay, on the provision that he doesn't reveal his true nature or the treasure.

The next day, Barnabas begins to fit in with his descendants. He passes himself off as a distant relative from England, who has arrived to restore the Collins family's fortunes. He discovers that the Collins fishing business and family has been brought to ruin by a new competitor, Angel Bay, whose owner comes to welcome him... Angelique. She explains that while he was gone, she became a major chieftain of Collinsport and with her position runs the whole town, having brought the Collins to ruin with her influence. She manages to wound Barnabas with daylight, but later Elizabeth encourages Barnabas to defy Angelique for the sake of the family.

Barnabas manages to restore the family business (mostly through hypnotizing most of Angelique's fishermen and inducing them to work for him instead), as well as gain the trust of the Collins family. He is also able to cultivate a romance with Victoria, who uncannily resembles his lost love Josette. Dr. Hoffman discovers Barnabass secret, but is convinced by Elizabeth to keep it a secret for scientific purposes; she works on making Barnabas human through transfusions of human blood. Angelique, who is still lethally attracted towards Barnabas, has a meeting with Barnabas and she repeats her advances on him and seduces him; he refuses her a second time, and she swears to destroy him if she won't have him.

Barnabas enters a hippie commune whom Victoria is acquainted with to adjust himself to the 1970s era, but instead ends up killing them all. Later, he proposes hosting a ball at Collinwood to restore the family name. At this ball, he discovers Roger stealing money from the guests and neglecting his son. Later, he has an intimate moment with Victoria, who confides in him the truth about herself: she was originally a child named Maggie Evans, and she had the ghost of Josette duPres as her constant friend, an act which convinced her parents she was insane and put her in a mental asylum. She managed to escape and take on a new identity of Victoria Winters, and make her way to Collinsport. She feels drawn to Barnabas as if shes known him forever, and the two of them kiss, not knowing an enraged Angelique is watching them...

The day after the ball, Barnabas discovers that Dr. Hoffman has been using his blood to make herself immortal; enraged at this deceit, he kills her and dumps her body into the ocean. Finally, he discovers Roger looking for the vault and presents him an ultimatum: either be a good attentive father to David, or leave with enough money to keep him comfortable. Roger decides to leave Collinwood and David behind, to his son's grief. When a ceiling ornament drops and nearly crushes an unknowing David, Barnabas saves him, but unfortunately exposes his true nature to everyone, including David and Victoria, who consequently draw away from him.

Barnabas meets Angelique and asks that she rid him of her curse. She proposes that he join her and they rule Collinsport together, or she locks him back in the box and destroys all he holds dear. He outright refuses this bargain, so she makes good on her promise: she locks him in the box and deposits it at an abandoned mausoleum, where she plans to keep him there until all he loves is destroyed. She starts by blowing up the Collins family factory, and then blaming it on the Collins; she manages to stir up an angry mob of townspeople to attack Collinwood.

Barnabas is freed by David, who explains his ghost mother guided him to the mausoleum. They make it back to Collinwood just as the mob arrives. Barnabas offers to give himself up in place of his family, then attacks Angelique and cracks her skin. This unnatural spectacle exposes her as a witch to the townspeople, who abandon her and leave Collinwood as fast as possible. The Collins then make a combined assault on the woman who ruined them; Barnabas with his vampire powers, Willie with an ax, Elizabeth with a shotgun, Carolyn as a werewolf (revealed to have been cursed by Angelique), and finally David summons the spirit of his mother (whom Angelique drowned) to hurl Angelique into a chandelier. Mortally wounded, she tears out her heart and offers it to Barnabas, saying she really did love him.

In the aftermath, Barnabas searches for Victoria; David hears from his mother that she's heading for Widows Hill. Barnabas rushes off and manages to stop her, but learns she is planning to jump off the cliff of her own accord: unless Barnabas will make her a vampire like him so that they can be truly united, she would rather die than be apart from him. She jumps, and Barnabas saves her by biting her and turning her into a vampire; this has the effect of combining Josette's psyche with Victoria, who wakes up as a vampire and is now taken over by Josette. Barnabas ends the film with a another voice-over narration that despite Victoria being dead, Josette is now alive in Victoria's body, and they lived happily ever after in the dark shadows, and his curse of eternal suffering and guilt of being immortal has come to an end... so to speak.

In the final shot, at the bottom of the ocean, the body of the newborn vampire Dr. Hoffman reanimates.

Young filmmaker and scientist Victor Frankenstein lives with his parents, Ben and Susan Frankenstein and dog Sparky in the quiet town of New Holland. Victor's intelligence is recognized by his classmates at school, his somber next-door neighbor, Elsa Van Helsing, mischievous, igor-like Edgar "E" Gore, obese and gullible Bob, overconfident Toshiaki, creepy Nassor, and an eccentric girl nicknamed Weird Girl, but communicates little with them due to his relationship with his dog. Concerned with his son's isolation, Victor's father encourages him to take up baseball and make achievements outside of science. Victor hits a home run at his first game, but Sparky, pursuing the ball, is killed by a car.

Inspired by his science teacher Mr. Rzykruski's demonstration of the effect of electricity on dead frogs, a depressed Victor digs up Sparky's corpse, brings him to his makeshift laboratory in the attic, and successfully reanimates him with lightning. Seeing Weird Girl's living cat, Mr. Whiskers, the undead Sparky escapes from the attic and explores the neighborhood. He is recognized by Edgar, who blackmails Victor into teaching him how to raise the dead. The two reanimate a dead goldfish, which turns invisible due to an error with the experiment. Edgar brags about the undead fish to Toshiaki and Bob, which, in panic of losing the upcoming science fair, inspires them to make a rocket out of soda bottles, which causes Bob to injure his arm and Mr. Rzykruski to be blamed and fired due to his accused influencing and reviling the townsfolk for questioning his methods when he steps up for self-defense.

Eventually, Edgar's fish demolishes when he tries to show it to a skeptical Nassor and when Edgar is confronted by Toshiaki, Nassor, and Bob on the baseball field at school, he reveals Victor's actions, inspiring them to try reanimation themselves. Victor's parents discover Sparky in the attic and are frightened, causing the dog to flee. Victor and his parents search for Sparky while the classmates invade the lab, discovering Victor's reanimation formula. The classmates separately perform their experiments, which go awry and turn the dead animals into monstersMr. Whiskers holds a dead bat while it is electrocuted, turning him into a vampire cat; Edgar turns a dead rat he found in the garbage into a wererat; Nassor revives his mummified hamster Colossus; Toshiaki's turtle Shelley is covered in a growth formula and turns into a giant Gamera-like monster; and Bob's Sea-Monkeys grow into amphibious humanoid monsters. The monsters break loose into the town fair where they wreak havoc.

After finding Sparky at the town's pet cemetery, Victor sees the monsters attacking the fair and goes to help his classmates deal with them-the Sea-Monkeys explode after eating salt-covered popcorn, and Colossus is stepped on by Shelley, while the rat and Shelley are returned to their original, deceased forms after being electrocuted. During the chaos, the town's mayor's niece Elsa van Helsing is grabbed by Mr. Whiskers and carried to the town windmill. The townsfolks blame Sparky for her disappearance and chase him to the windmill, which Mayor Bergermeister accidentally ignites with his torch. Victor and Sparky enter the burning windmill and rescue Elsa, but Victor is trapped inside. Sparky rescues Victor, only to be dragged back inside by Mr. Whiskers. A final confrontation ensues, and just as Mr. Whiskers has Sparky cornered, a flaming piece of wood breaks off and impales him. The windmill collapses on Sparky, killing him again. To reward him for his bravery, the townsfolk gather to revive Sparky with their car batteries, reanimating him once more. Persephone, Elsa's pet poodle, who has a hair style similar to the Elsa Lanchester's Bride of Frankenstein, comes to Sparky as the two dogs share their love.

Florida teen Jake Portman feels he lives a mundane life. One day at work, he gets a phone call regarding his grandfather Abe. Jake calls Abe himself, and the old man sounds frightened and paranoid. Jake's supervisor Shelley gives him a ride to Abe's house.

As they make it to Abe's house, Jake and Shelley see a man with white eyes standing in the road menacingly. Jake enters Abe's house to find it ransacked. Outside in the woods, Jake finds Abe's flashlight with blood on it. Abe is lying on the ground with his eyes missing. He is conscious long enough to warn Jake of something awful. Abe dies, and a monstrous creature starts walking toward Jake. Shelley emerges with her gun, and Jake alerts her to the creature behind her. She starts shooting, but she sees nothing.

Later on, Jake visits his psychologist Dr. Golan to talk about how he's felt since his grandfather's passing. He knows it was no accident, despite the coroner stating that Abe had a heart attack.

We see a flashback of Jake as a child with Abe telling him fantastical stories about encountering monsters and other oddities. He would tell Jake about a group home for children run by Miss Peregrine, a mysterious Englishwoman who, along with the other children there, have strange abilities that she kept living with her.

Jake's aunt gives him a book from Abe from Ralph Waldo Emerson, which contains a postcard from Miss Peregrine welcoming him to return. Her home is on an island called Cairnholm, located in Wales. With encouragement from Dr. Golan, Jake convinces his parents to allow him to go there and visit Miss Peregrine.

Jake travels with his father Franklin, who didn't have the best relationship with Abe, his father. On the ferry to the island, the two spot a peregrine falcon flying up above. Jake jokes that it must be Miss Peregrine herself, so he calls to her. Upon arriving at the island, Jake and Franklin stay at an old pub that also has a room. Franklin then pays two local boys to guide Jake to the side of the island that he wants to see. When Jake gets there, he finds that the home has been destroyed. He returns to the pub disappointed, believing Miss Peregrine and the children to be long dead.

The next day, Jake goes back around to the home and finds a group of children there. He gets spooked and runs away, where he ends up tripping and knocking himself unconscious. He wakes up to find himself being carried by a little girl named Bronwyn, who possesses incredible strength. Jake then meets the children that Abe told him about - Emma, a girl who can manipulate air and must wear lead shoes to keep her from floating away; Olive, a girl with pyrokinetic abilites; Hugh, a boy who has bees living inside him; Millard, an invisible boy; and two masked twins. The children guide Jake through a cave, but he gets spooked and runs away.

Jake returns to the pub and finds it filled with customers. The manager doesn't let him up and threatens him when the other suspect Jake of being a spy. The peculiar children arrive and intervene to get Jake out of there. He quickly realized he is stuck in the 1943 loop for now.

Jake is then brought to meet Miss Peregrine herself. She introduces him to the remaining children - Fiona, a girl who control plants; Claire, a girl with a mouth in the back of her head; Horace, a boy with prophetic dreams; and Enoch, who has the power to bring back the dead for a brief time. He shows off this talent using two small skeletal puppets with tiny hearts that fight each other for a short moment. Enoch is jealous because he likes Emma and knows Jake does too, but Emma had feelings for Abe, and he left long ago.

Miss Peregrine explains to Jake that they live in a time loop, which keeps them from the outside world but allows them to live in peace. They are stuck on September 3, 1943, during the WWII raids, moments before a bomb would drop on the house and kill everyone, but Miss Peregrine sets the clock back to 24 hours earlier. They cannot live outside the loop, or else their years will catch up to them and they will die.

Jake joins Miss Peregrine and the children for dinner. Afterwards, they are treated to Horace's dreams that they watch like movies. They see a woman being wheeled away by villainous men, as well as Jake and Emma looking like they're about to kiss. After the show, Miss Peregrine brings the children outside and shows Jake how the loop works when German planes fly overhead and drop a bomb, but she resets the clock to 24 hours earlier, taking them back to September 2nd.

Jake follows Emma into a cave asking questions about everything he's just heard and seen, but Emma says there are some questions she can't answer. A bird then flies into the cave and hits the wall. Emma brings it back to the home to be treated.

When Jake returns to meet his dad, they are called over by a farmer whose sheep have all been killed. They return to the pub, and Jake finds a letter that Abe wrote to Miss Peregrine warning her about someone named Mr. Barron, and to tell Miss Avocet, another headmistress of a home for Peculiars, to create a new loop immediately.

The next morning, Jake and Franklin hit the beach and meet an ornithologist looking out for rare birds for a book he plans on writing.

Jake later sneaks out while Franklin takes a nap so he can return to the home. Miss Peregrine is treating the bird, who is really Miss Avocet, the same woman seen in Horace's dream, and an Ymbryne just like Miss Peregrine. Jake questions Miss Peregrine about Barron, but she avoids giving answers.

Jake then runs into Enoch and Olive. Enoch brings Jake over to the room of Victor, Bronwyn's brother who was killed by the same creature as Abe. His eyes are missing, and Enoch reanimates him like a puppet to freak Jake out.

Emma takes Jake to her secret hideout, which is a sunken ship deep beneath the ocean. She blows him an air bubble and then blows the water out of the ship. Emma shows Jake photos of pale-eyed people, including Barron, whom Jake recognizes as the man outside Abe's house the night he died. Afterwards, she brings Jake to watch Miss Peregrine walk with her crossbow over by a spot with a chalk outline of a creature. A tall, eyeless monster like the one Jake saw in the woods emerges, but it is only visible to him. Miss Peregrine shoots the creature with an arrow, and it falls perfectly into the outline. Emma realizes that Jake's peculiarity is being able to see these monsters.

Back at the home, Emma brings Miss Peregrine her book to explain to Jake who these creatures are. Barron and his cronies are Hollowgasts, a different group of Peculiars that hunt the good ones in order to live beyond the loops for all eternity. Barron performed an experiment using Miss Avocet due to her Ymbryne powers, but it backfired and turned him and the other Hollows into hideous monsters. They managed to return to their human forms by consuming the eyes of Peculiars.

Miss Peregrine walks into a room where the children are sitting by Miss Avocet, who has taken her human form. Fearing that Barron will come after the children, she decides it is time to leave and find a new home and loop.

Jake returns by the beach and finds Franklin worried sick. A wheelchair-bound man that they had met earlier is found dead by the rocks with his eyes taken out. Jake runs away and is followed into the cave by the ornithologist. He then takes the form of Dr. Golan before revealing himself to be Barron. He turns his hand into a blade and holds it to Jake's throat in order to make him do his bidding.

Barron forces Jake to take him to the home. Miss Peregrine finds them and tells the children to retreat for their safety, knowing that Barron is waiting for his Hollow friend to go after them, and with Jake being able to see them, he is their only hope for survival. She asks Jake to promise that he will look after the children should anything happen to her. He agrees, and she turns into her bird form so that Barron may cage her.

Jake and Miss Avocet help keep the children hidden in darkness for when the Hollow shows up. Jake then answers the phone to hear a call from Abe in 1943. Jake takes the time to say he wished he could have been a better grandson.

As Miss Avocet is telling the children what to do, she is pulled through a wall by the Hollow. Jake guides the children to safety and fights the Hollow with Miss Peregrine's crossbow, but he misses every shot. Eventually, the German plane drops the bomb on the house, killing the Hollow. The loop then closes for good, and the children can never return to that home.

The children work together to raise Emma's ship to the surface so they may head over to the Blackpool Tower, where there is another loop. Since this loop was created in January 2016, Jake and Emma realize that if they kill Barron there, they may be able to prevent Abe's death from happening. They all arrive at the pier and go through a haunted house where the Hollows are set to perform their experiment with Miss Peregrine and other Ymbrynes. Jake and Emma lure some Hollows outside toward the pier.

Once the Hollows reach the pier, the children fight back. They start throwing snowballs and cotton candy at the Hollows to allow them to be seen. Enoch brings some skeletons to life, which go after the Hollows and start slaying them. Bronwyn grabs a horse off the merry-go-round and hurls it at a Hollow, throwing him into the water. The other children fight Barron and his two Hollow friends in their lair. The male Hollow tries to freeze Bronwyn under a pool of water, but Fiona stops him by throwing seeds at him that sprout vines that wrap around him. Olive frees Bronwyn, but the Hollow starts to freeze Olive up. Enoch brings an elephant puppet to life and uses it to crush the Hollow. The female Hollow is turned to stone by the twins when they remove their masks and stare at her. Enoch apologizes to Olive for not appearing to care for her as much when it looks like she's dead, but she is revived and happy to hear what Enoch said.

Jake and Emma attempt to fight Barron, but he is immune to their attacks. Jake frees the Ymbrynes and pisses Barron off. Emma and Enoch find Jake, but Barron has also taken Jake's form to trick them. Jake is able to prove himself when he spots the last Hollow walking behind them. He picks up Barron-Jake as he tries to convince the Hollow who he really is, but he plucks out Barron's eyes and kills him. Enoch throws Jake the crossbow, which he uses to kill the Hollow.

The children then leave on the ship to stay within their loop, but Jake knows it means he cannot see them again.

Upon returning to Florida, Jake goes by Abe's house and sees that he's still alive. He tells Abe all about his time with Miss Peregrine and the children. Abe gives Jake the Emerson book, which contains a lot of money in it, for his "travels."

Jake is running on the docks to catch up to the children's ship. He finds Emma and explains to her that he's had to go through different loops in different cities over different years, but she stops him and kisses him. As he joins them on their adventure, Miss Peregrine flies by and stops at a tower. She finds the children and flies over to their ship.

Pumpkin king Jack Skellington, an elegantly attenuated skeleton, has delivered another scary Halloween. But he receives the adulation of Halloweentown with no enthusiasm -- something is missing from Jack's life and he's tired of doing the same old Halloween thing year after year. The missing something might well be Sally, an animated rag doll who yearns for Jack, but he doesn't notice. (Sally was created by Halloweentown's evil scientist , who keeps her locked up except when she knocks him out by slipping deadly nightshade in his soup.)

After pondering his ennui in a cemetery (disturbing Sally, who's replenishing her supply of deadly nightshade), Jack takes his ghostly dog Zero for a walk in the woods. They come upon a strange circle of trees, each with a door representing a holiday. Jack opens the Christmas door and they're sucked in, landing in Christmastown. Jack is curious about everything he sees there, but finds it all delightful and wants to be part of it.

Back in Halloweentown Jack calls a town meeting, where he describes what he saw in Christmastown. His people don't seem very impressed, so to draw them in, he makes some elements of Christmas -- including "Sandy Claws" -- sound scary. Then he announces that they're taking over Christmas and starts assigning jobs. The evil scientist must whip up some reindeer, Halloweentown's top trick-or-treaters are to kidnap Sandy Claws, and Sally's task is to make Jack a red Santa suit. She tries to tell him that co-opting Christmas is a terrible idea, but he's too wrapped up in his enthusiasm to listen.

The three trick-or-treaters return triumphantly with the Easter Bunny; Jack sends them back and eventually they bring him Sandy Claws (who surprises Jack by having hands rather than claws). Jack directs the trick-or-treaters to take Sandy Claws away and make him comfortable, but they give him to Oogie Boogie instead.

Meanwhile, Sally has produced a red suit (without a hat, so Jack steals Sandy's) and the evil scientist's skeletal reindeer are hitched to a sleigh full of creepy toys. Sally tries to sabotage his Christmas Eve delivery by adding fog juice to the town well, and it almost works. But the spectral dog Zero, who happens to have a glowing nose, comes to the rescue. Sally deduces that only Sandy Claws will be able to help Jack now, and sneaks into Oogie Boogie's lair in an effort to free him.

Jack sets off in his sleigh, but he doesn't really get Christmas -- his idea of a keen gift for a small child is a shrunken head or a toy duck with sharp teeth that chases its owner -- so he spreads terror and mayhem at every house he visits. He ends up being blown up out of the sky by the terrified populace. Realizing both his mistake and his desire to be the best pumpkin king he can be, he goes back to Halloweentown to find Sandy Claws and set Christmas right.

He surprises Oogie Boogie, frees Sally and Sandy Claws, and unravels Oogie Boogie in a decisive final showdown. Santa Claus scolds Jack about trying to take over a holiday that isn't his, and then sets about magically saving Christmas. Jack and Sally return to town just as Santa Claus flies over and offers the Halloweentownsfolk a bit of Christmas magic: their first snowfall. Jack and Sally share a tender moment in the cemetery, realizing they were always meant to be together.

Edward Bloom, a charismatic teller of tall tales, is a source of frustration to his only child, William. At Will's wedding, Edward embarrasses him by telling the guests an impossible-sounding story about the day of Will's birth, involving a giant catfish that ate his wedding ring. Will believes that his father tells lies to get attention and confronts him angrily. They don't speak to each other for three years.

Three years later, Will, living in Paris, France, receives news that Edward is very ill with cancer, and that he might not have long to live. Will and his pregnant French wife Josephine travel to Ashton, Alabama, Will's hometown. They have a reunion with Sandra K. Bloom, Edward's wife and Will's mother, who is bringing Edward home from the hospital to take care of him until he dies. Edward is weak and bedridden, but he and Will finally speak again. Will asks to know the truth about his father's life. Edward retells his version of his childhood....

In a flashback, a young Edward and two of his friends meet a witch living in a swamp who has a glass eye which reveals the eventual death of anyone who looks into it. Edward sees how he will die, and decides that he can now take unreasonable risks because he knows they cannot kill him. Soon afterward, Edward begins to grow at an alarming rate and is hooked up to a machine in bed, as his muscles and bones cannot keep up with his "body's ambition." In an encyclopedia, young Edward reads that a goldfish will remain small if kept in a small bowl, but will grow bigger in a larger habitat. Because he is growing so fast, he concludes he is meant for bigger things.

As a teenager, Edward Bloom is a high school star athlete, entrepreneur, and local hero. When a mysterious "monster" comes to town and eats livestock during the night, he volunteers to talk to it and get it to leave. Edward tracks down the culprit, a gloomy but goodhearted giant named Karl, and convinces him to move to a bigger city. Edward explains that Ashton is too small a town for men of Karl's size and Edward's ambition. The two leave town, and Edward is given the key to Ashton by the mayor.

They approach a forest, which Edward wants to take a shortcut through. He promises to meet Karl on the other side, and ventures through the woods. He stumbles across the town of Spectre, a seemingly perfect place where no one wears shoes. When he enters the town, he is greeted by Beamen, the mayor and his wife Mildred. The mayor has a clipboard that says Edward was meant to be in their town, but he's arrived early. Beamen tells Edward of the poet Norther Winslow, who is also from Ashton. Edward encounters a mermaid in a pond near Spectre, but she swims away before he can see her face.

After spending one day and night in the mysterious town, Edward shocks the townspeople by politely excusing himself to get on with his journey. His shoes are flung up onto a high rope along with many other pairs that were taken from each towns person upon their arrival in Spectre in an effort to keep them there, but Edward continues his trek barefoot. He promises a smitten little girl named Jenny that he will return someday.

Edward and Karl stumble upon a circus, where Karl is immediately hired as an attraction by the owner and ringmaster, Amos Calloway and his clown/attorney Mr. Soggybottom. Edward glimpses a beautiful girl in the big-top audience, but she is whisked out the door with the crowd before he can speak to her. She turns out to be a family friend of Calloway's. Certain that she is the woman he will marry, Edward begs Calloway for a job, asking for only one piece of information about the girl for every month of work. Edward toils at the circus and learns that the girl loves daffodils and music. Three years later, having only learned trivia about her, Edward discovers that Amos is a werewolf. To reward Edward for his refusal to harm Amos in his monstrous state, Amos tells Edward the girl's name is Sandra Templeton and she studies at Auburn University. Edward bids farewell to Mr. Calloway and sets off to find Sandra.

In the present day, the elderly Edward befriends his daughter-in-law, Josephine, but is still at odds with his son, who believes him to be a liar. Will begs his father to be himself, but Edward firmly retorts "I've been nothing but myself since the day I was born, and if you can't see that, it's your failing, not mine!"

In the flashback tall tale, upon reaching the university where Sandra Templeton is a student, the teenage Edward finally meets her and explains that he loves her. She is kind to him and has heard of his accomplishments in Ashton, but is already engaged to Edward's hapless rival, Ashton native Don Price. Still determined, Edward finds not-so-subtle ways to woo Sandra. One morning, Sandra awakens to find her lawn covered in daffodils provided by Edward. However, Don Price appears and begins to brutally beat Edward, who had promised Sandra he would not fight back. But as Sandra sees Don's cruelty, she breaks the engagement, and eventually does marry Edward. Edward later reveals that Don died from a sudden heart attack while sitting on a toilet only a few years later.

While recovering in the hospital from his fight injuries, Edward receives a draft notice, forcing him to enlist for the Korean War. While sad to leave his new wife, Edward knows from the glass eye that nothing in the war will kill him. Thus, he volunteers for the most dangerous missions in hopes of being sent home sooner. While parachuting into a North Korean army camp during a performance for the troops to steal some important documents, Edward meets struggling Siamese twin singers Ping and Jing performing for the enemy troops. He offers to help them break into American show business if they can help him get home. However, the U.S. Army lists him as missing and presumably dead, sending a telegram to a heartbroken Sandra. Edward eventually rejoins his wife and takes a job as a traveling salesman to buy them a better house.

In line at a bank one day, the younger Edward encounters Norther Winslow, a native of Ashton he met years before in Spectre. Norther has since become a criminal, and Edward is roped into assisting him in robbing the bank. However, the bank has literally no cash for them to steal. Norther resolves to go to Wall Street, where the money is. He later sends Edward $10,000, which he uses to buy a house for Sandra and a young Will.

Years later, Edward is nearing middle age. He re-establishes his friendship with Jenny, the little girl he met in Spectre, who now lives in a dilapidated old house and gives piano lessons. Seeing the condition of her home, Edward begins to fix it up himself, with the help of Karl the giant. After he restores the house, Jenny reveals that she still has feelings for him after many years. Edward gently tells her that he loves only Sandra, and departs.

In the present, still unimpressed by his father's stories, Will demands to know the truth, but Edward explains that he is who he is: a storyteller. While doing his own investigation into his father's stories, Will finds the small town of Spectre, and meets an older Jenny, who explains that Edward rescued the town from bankruptcy by buying it at an auction and rebuilding it with financial help from many friends and acquaintances; and that he used to work at Calloway's Circus, which he also saved from bankruptcy. Will suggests his father had been having an affair with Jenny, to which she replies that while she had indeed fallen in love with him, Edward could never love any woman other than Sandra.

Back in Ashton, elderly Edward weakens more and more. However, he repeatedly tells his family that this is not the death he saw in the eye. Will spends some time alone, still believing that he will never have a chance to know his father's true character. Shortly after, Edward has a stroke and is hospitalized. Will encounters the family doctor, who had delivered him and is now treating Edward. Will asks to know the real story of his birth, having heard only his father's catfish story in the past. The doctor explains that it was simply a normal birth, and though Edward exaggerated it, hearing his story was entertaining and comforting. Will decides to reconcile with his dying father.

At Edward's bedside, Will finds him only partly conscious, and unable to speak at length. Since Edward can no longer tell stories, he asks Will to tell him the story of how his life ends. Deciding to play along, Will tells his own impromptu tall tale: Edward regains strength, and he and Will escape from the hospital. Jumping into Edward's old car, they speed to a nearby river, where all their family and friends are waiting. Instead of a funeral, they are holding a goodbye party, and Edward happily bids them farewell as he transforms into a catfish and swims away. Shortly afterwords, Edward dies.

Will is the only one present for Edward's death, and is deeply happy that they connected at last. At Edward's funeral, Will, Josephine and Sandra along with Edward's doctor are initially the only ones in attendance. Then a long line of cars, vans and buses arrive and it is here that Will becomes astonished to see all of the characters from Edward's stories show up to pay their respects to Edward; Amos, Karl the Giant, Norther Winslow, Older Jenny, Mr. Soggybottom, Ping and Jing, Mayor Beamen of Spectre all arrive. However, each one of them is slightly less fantastical than they're described in Edward's stories. For example, Amos Calloway is not a werewolf, but only a short and long-haired man; Karl is not a 12-foot giant, but still very tall at around seven feet; Ping and Jing are not conjoined twins, just identical. It finally becomes clear that Edward had combined his love of storytelling with his own reality, which finally makes sense to Will. When his own son is born, Will passes the stories on to him, remarking that his father became his stories -- allowing him to live forever.


Halloween Town, is a dream world filled with citizens such as deformed monsters, ghosts, ghouls, goblins, vampires, werewolves and witches. Jack Skellington ("The Pumpkin King") leads them in a frightful celebration every Halloween, but he has grown tired of the same routine year after year. Wandering in the forest outside the town center, he accidentally opens a portal to "Christmas Town." Impressed by the feeling and style of Christmas, Jack presents his findings and his (somewhat limited) understanding of the festivities to the Halloween Town residents. They fail to grasp his meaning and compare everything he says to their idea of Halloween. He reluctantly decides to play along and announces that they will take over Christmas.

Jack's obsession with Christmas leads him to usurp the role of Santa Claus. Every resident is assigned a task, while Sally, a rag doll woman who is created by the town's mad scientist, begins to feel a romantic attraction towards Jack. However, she alone fears that his plans will become disastrous. Jack assigns Lock, Shock, and Barrel a trio of mischievous children, to abduct Santa and bring him back to Halloween Town. Against Jack's wishes and largely for their amusement, the trio deliver Santa to Oogie Boogie, a gambling-addict bogeyman who plots to play a game with Santa's life at stake.


Christmas Eve arrives and Sally attempts to stop Jack with fog, but he embarks into the sky on a coffin-like sleigh pulled by skeletal reindeer, guided by the glowing nose of his ghost dog Zero. He begins to deliver presents to children around the world, but the gifts (shrunken heads, Christmas tree-eating snakes, etc.) only terrify the recipients. Jack is believed to be an imposter attempting to imitate Santa, and the military goes on alert to blast him out of the sky. The sleigh is shot down and he is presumed dead by Halloween Town's citizens, but in fact he has survived the crash, landing in a cemetery. Although he is depressed by the failure of his plan, he quickly regains his old spirit, having come up with new ideas for next Halloween. He then rushes back home to rescue Santa and put things right.

Meanwhile, Sally attempts to free Santa, but is captured by Oogie. Jack slips into the lair and frees them, then angrily confronts Oogie. Almost immediately, Oogie springs a surprise trap on Jack by stomping a spider-shaped button. Some metal playing cards pop up, notably the Kings of each suit, but their swords begin to spin madly. Oogie is able to outrun the swords, but Jack is able to follow suit by twisting and contorting his body around the swords. Oogie then hits another button, and three robotic cowboys with skulls for heads fire revolvers at Jack, but he merely jumps on top of the arm of the robots and balances himself out. Oogie realizes he himself is getting to close to the line of fire. He lunges for a third button and hits it, but his sack begins to unravel. The button Oogie hit sends a giant buzzsaw with a skeleton stuck on it towards Jack. He jumps off the robot cowboy arms just in time. Oogie flings himself on top of the spinning claw, trying to flee. Jack, however, angrily yanks on the loose thread, which unravels Oogie's outer covering, spilling out all the bugs that live inside him. A majority of the bugs proceeds to fall into the lava vat where Sally and Santa were supposed to fall in, while others managing to evade destruction.

With Oogie gone, Santa reprimands Jack before setting off to deliver the right presents to the world's children. He makes snow fall over Halloween Town to show that there are no hard feelings between himself and Jack; the townspeople are confused by the snow at first, but soon begin to play happily in it. After seeing the doctor with his new creation, Jack spies Sally heading out to the graveyard and follows her there. After Sally comes to short stop on top of the graveyard's big hill, Jack reveals that he is just as strongly romantically attracted to Sally as she is to him. As they admit their love, they embrace each other and they kiss under the full moon in the cemetery.