
The sun was shining on the sea Shining with all his might He did his very best to make The billows smooth and bright And this was odd because it was The middle of the night. The moon was shining sulkily Because she thought the sun Had got no business to be there After the day was done "It's very rude of him" she said "To come and spoil the fun." The sea was wet as wet could be The sands were dry as dry. You could not see a cloud because No cloud was in the sky No birds were flying overhead There were no birds to fly. The Walrus and the Carpenter Were walking close at hand They wept like anything to see Such quantities of sand If this were only cleared away' They said it would be grand!' If seven maids with seven mops Swept it for half a year Do you suppose' the Walrus said That they could get it clear?' I doubt it' said the Carpenter And shed a bitter tear. O Oysters come and walk with us!' The Walrus did beseech. A pleasant walk a pleasant talk Along the briny beach We cannot do with more than four To give a hand to each.' The eldest Oyster looked at him But never a word he said The eldest Oyster winked his eye And shook his heavy head Meaning to say he did not choose To leave the oyster-bed. But four young Oysters hurried up All eager for the treat Their coats were brushed their faces washed Their shoes were clean and neat And this was odd because you know They hadn't any feet. Four other Oysters followed them And yet another four And thick and fast they came at last And more and more and more All hopping through the frothy waves And scrambling to the shore. The Walrus and the Carpenter Walked on a mile or so And then they rested on a rock Conveniently low And all the little Oysters stood And waited in a row. The time has come' the Walrus said To talk of many things Of shoes and ships and sealing-wax Of cabbages and kings And why the sea is boiling hot And whether pigs have wings.' But wait a bit' the Oysters cried Before we have our chat For some of us are out of breath And all of us are fat!' No hurry!' said the Carpenter. They thanked him much for that. A loaf of bread' the Walrus said Is what we chiefly need Pepper and vinegar besides Are very good indeed Now if you're ready Oysters dear We can begin to feed.' But not on us!' the Oysters cried Turning a little blue. After such kindness that would be A dismal thing to do!' The night is fine' the Walrus said. Do you admire the view? It was so kind of you to come! And you are very nice!' The Carpenter said nothing but Cut us another slice I wish you were not quite so deaf I've had to ask you twice!' It seems a shame' the Walrus said To play them such a trick After we've brought them out so far And made them trot so quick!' The Carpenter said nothing but The butter's spread too thick!' I weep for you' the Walrus said I deeply sympathize.' With sobs and tears he sorted out Those of the largest size Holding his pocket-handkerchief Before his streaming eyes. O Oysters' said the Carpenter You've had a pleasant run! Shall we be trotting home again?' But answer came there none And this was scarcely odd because They'd eaten every one."
I am he as you are he as you are me
And we are all together
See how they run like pigs from a gun
See how they fly
I'm crying
Sitting on a corn flake
Waiting for the van to come
Corporation T-shirt, stupid bloody Tuesday
Man you've been a naughty boy
You let your face grow long
I am the egg man
They are the egg men
I am the walrus
Goo goo g'joob
Mr. City policeman sitting
Pretty little policemen in a row
See how they fly like Lucy in the sky
See how they run
I'm crying
I'm crying, I'm crying, I'm crying
Yellow matter custard
Dripping from a dead dog's eye
Crabalocker fishwife, pornographic priestess
Boy, you've been a naughty girl
You let your knickers down
I am the egg man
They are the egg men
I am the walrus
Goo goo g'joob
Sitting in an English garden
Waiting for the sun
If the sun don't come you get a tan
From standing in the English rain
I am the egg man (How do you do sir?)
They are the egg men (The man maintains a fortune)
I am the walrus
Goo goo g'joob, goo goo goo g'joob
Expert, texpert choking smokers
Don't you think the joker laughs at you (Ho ho ho, hee hee hee, hah hah hah)
See how they smile like pigs in a sty
See how they snide
I'm crying
Semolina Pilchard
Climbing up the Eiffel tower
Elementary penguin singing Hare Krishna
Man, you should have seen them kicking Edgar Allen Poe
I am the egg man
They are the egg men
I am the walrus
Goo goo g'joob, goo goo goo g'joob
Goo goo g'joob, goo goo goo g'joob, goo goo
The characters of the Walrus and the Carpenter have been interpreted many ways both in literary criticism and popular culture. Some, including the character Loki in the film Dogma, interpret the Walrus to be a caricature of the Buddha and the Carpenter to be a caricature of Jesus Christ. British essayist J. B. Priestley argued that the figures were political, as does Walter Russell Mead, who utilises the Walrus and the Carpenter as an allegory for Britain and the United States respectively. However, in The Annotated Alice, Martin Gardner notes that, when Carroll gave the manuscript for Looking Glass to illustrator John Tenniel, he gave him the choice of drawing a carpenter, a butterfly, or a baronet, since each word would fit the poem's metre. Because Tenniel rather than Carroll chose the carpenter, the character's significance in the poem is probably not in his profession, and interpretations of the poem as a commentary on religion are likely false. Gardner cautions the reader that there is not always intended symbolism in the Alice books, which were made for the imagination of children and not the analysis of "mad people".
Although it has been reported that Lennon wrote "I Am the Walrus" to confuse those who tried to interpret his songs, there have nevertheless been many attempts to analyse the meaning of the lyrics. Seen in the Magical Mystery Tour film singing the song, Lennon, apparently, is the walrus; on the track-list of the accompanying soundtrack album, however, underneath "I Am the Walrus" are printed the words " 'No you're not!' said Little Nicola" (in the film, Nicola Hale is a little girl who keeps contradicting everything the other characters say). Lennon returned to the subject in the lyrics of three of his subsequent songs: in the 1968 Beatles song "Glass Onion" he sings, "I told you 'bout the walrus and me, man, You know that we're as close as can be, man, Well here's another clue for you all, The walrus was Paul"; in the third verse of "Come Together" he sings the line "he bag production, he got walrus gumboot"; and in his 1970 solo song "God", admits: "I was the walrus, but now I'm John". Eric Burdon, lead singer of the Animals, claims to be the "Eggman" mentioned in the song's lyric. Burdon was known as "Eggs" to his friends, the nickname originating from his fondness for breaking eggs over women. Burdon's biography mentions such an affair taking place in the presence of John Lennon, who shouted "Go on, go get it, Eggman..."
“‘I Am the Walrus’ was made up of three distinctly different songs–the first is the beginning of the song, which John was given the idea of by hearing a distant police siren. The second song was about John sitting in his garden at home ("sitting in an English garden…”). The third was a song which was invented after John learned that a teacher was having his students study Beatles songs for meaning. John created the song with nonsense lines such as “elementary penguins”, “sitting on a cornflake”, and “crabalocker”. John later said “Let (the students) work that one out.” “I Am the Walrus” is notorious for being one of the first rock songs to use an orchestra."
Lennon is suggesting that we are all one being. The structure seems to be based on lyrics from The Weavers' “Marching To Pretoria,”, where various lines are, “X with me, I’ll X with you, and so we will X together”. And the cadence is based on the siren of a British emergency vehicle, though Lennon would admit, “You couldn’t really sing the police siren.” This fact also ties to the repeated references to policemen in the early verses.
Lennon is referring to policemen (pigs) and how they duck for cover whenever there is a shootout or gun-fight.
Lennon has said in interviews that he compared his songwriting to painting, and he loved “Abstractionists”. “I Am The Walrus” is a great example of his ability to do this. He utilizes disparate symbolic images, and amongst this collage, like an artist would throw a streak of purple, on a pastel setting, he uses a repeated line of emotion: “I’m crying”. This overlooked accent, is actually his personal input, layered on top of the events that paint a picture of seeing something tragic. In a more analytical interpretation, which is reading into what he was going through during this time, in interviews, he is quoted by saying: The whole Beatle thing is just beyond comprehension … subconsciously I was crying for help.
This is a strange line to glean interpretation, if any, from John Lennon. The van only appeared as a result of Hunter Davies (the Beatles' biographer) mishearing John singing a song fragment. He’d written down down another few words that day, just daft words, to put to another bit of rhythm. ‘Sitting on a cornflake, waiting for the man to come.’ I thought he said ‘van to come’, which he hadn’t, but he liked it better and said he’d use it instead.
“Bloody” is a mild profanity in British dialect. “Stupid bloody Tuesday” would mean you’re having a bad Tuesday, and complaining about it. This reference follows “corporation tee-shirt” because Lennon thought it was ironic that people would wear the logos of corporations, as if they weren’t heartless oppressors of the masses. “Bloody Tuesday” may also refer to massacre that occurred in South Africa in 1946 when striking gold mine workers, marching peacefully, were fired on by police. Much of this song is abstracted from Lennon’s childhood memories, and this is something he would have heard about.
Someone who is frowning is said to have a “long face”. Men are often socially conditioned to “keep a stiff upper lip”, and avoid showing sadness or crying. A few lines later, Lennon defies that by publicly announcing that he’s crying. “Growing your face long” might also be a poetic reference to growing a beard, an act considered by many to be a sign of rebelliousness.
Refers both to Lewis Carroll’s Humpty Dumpty, and a story Lennon heard from The Animals frontman Eric Burdon about a girl cracking an egg onto him. The words don’t mean a lot. People draw so many conclusions, and it’s ridiculous…‘I am the Eggman?’ It could have been the pudding basin for all I care.
- John Lennon According to the most commonly told version of the story, Burdon achieved “Eggman” status through his habit of “breaking raw eggs on girls” — but as Burdon himself explained in his 2002 memoir Don’t Let Me Be Misunderstood, it was actually the other way around. “It may have been one of my more dubious distinctions, but I was the Eggman — or, as some of my pals called me, ‘Eggs,‘” writes Burdon. It all started one sunny morning when he stood in the kitchen, “cooking breakfast,” and a “Jamaican girlfriend called Sylvia” took it upon herself to send the meal in an entirely different direction. “She slid up beside me and slipped an amyl nitrate capsule under my nose. As the fumes set my brain alight and I slid to the kitchen floor, she reached to the counter and grabbed an egg, which she cracked into the pit of my belly,” continues Burdon. Long story short, the nickname stuck, and Lennon was thoroughly amused. “I shared the story with John at a party at a Mayfair flat one night with a handful of blondes and a little Asian girl,” Burdon recalls in his book. “‘Go on, go get it, Eggman,’ Lennon laughed over the little round glasses perched on the end of his nose as we tried the all-too-willing girls on for size.”
The walrus is a reference to Lewis Carroll’s poem The Walrus and the Carpenter.
The poem describes how a carpenter and walrus gain the trust of a group of oysters only to betray the oysters and eat them. Upon hearing the poem Alice attempts to make sense of the characters actions.  “I like the Walrus best,” said Alice, “because you see he was a little sorry for the poor oysters.”
“He ate more than the Carpenter, though,” said Tweedledee. “You see he held his handkerchief in front, so that the Carpenter couldn’t count how many he took: contrariwise.”
“That was mean!” Alice said indignantly. “Then I like the Carpenter best—if he didn’t eat so many as the Walrus.”
“But he ate as many as he could get,” said Tweedledum. Lennon – like Alice – expressed dismay upon belatedly realizing that the walrus was a villain in the poem. Later, I went back and looked at it and realized that the walrus was the bad guy in the story and the carpenter was the good guy. I thought, Oh, shit, I picked the wrong guy. I should have said, ‘I am the carpenter.’ But that wouldn’t have been the same, would it?
During mixing, John was fiddling with a radio that happened to be broadcasting a production of King Lear. He decided to keep it in. There’s a small sound that appears to be the first indication of the play before the 5th verse but it’s almost undistinguishable, and the production will be picked up again by the end of the song. During this chorus, we get a portion of Act 4, scene 6: GLOUCESTER
Now, good sir, what are you? EDGAR
A most poor man, made tame to fortune’s blows;
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
Am pregnant to good pity.
Lennon was a chain smoker his entire adult life, in spite of trying to quit. In the song “I’m So Tired,” he wrote: “I’ll have another cigarette, and curse Sir Walter Raleigh he was such a stupid git.” Sir Walter Raleigh is credited with bringing tobacco to Britain. “I am the Walrus” is an absurd song about the absurdities of society, and people smoking themselves to death was something Lennon found just as absurd as over-analysis of his lyrics. The second line is talking directly to those over-analysing their songs: “so you big expert of lyrics analysis, don’t you think you’re wasting your time with this song when we’re just mocking you with these nonsensic lyrics?”. Later you can hear those ‘hohoho, hihihi, hahaha’.
A pig’s home is called a “sty”. It has been speculated that John was inspired by George Orwell’s Animal Farm, an allegorical novella satirizing the Russian Revolution. The main character is a pig, named Napoleon, who writes song and poems of radical propaganda. This is one of the inspirations behind George Harrison’s “Piggies”.
Being snide means being dishonest, or else being rude in a sneaky way.
Semolina is a kind of wheat paste. A pilchard is small fish. It has been speculated that “Semolina Pilchard” was Detective Sergeant Norman Pilcher, head of the Scotland Yard Drugs Unit. He led the arrests of several 60s rock stars, including Lennon, on drugs charges, before being investigated himself for blackmail and bribery in the ‘70s.
Turns out this ever so odd of lines is a dig at the Beat poet Allen Ginsberg: I saw Allen Ginsberg and some other people who liked Dylan and Jesus, going on about Hare Krishna. It was Ginsberg, in particular, I was referring to. The words ‘Elementary penguin’ meant that it’s naive to just go around chanting Hare Krishna or putting all your faith in one idol.
-John Lennon, All We Are Saying by David Sheff Lennon is comparing the Hare Krishnas, and particularly Ginsberg, to waddling penguins.
Ginsberg was profoundly influenced by Edgar Allen Poe. He mentions him both in his poems, and in his writing about poetry.  Lennon was taking a jab at Ginsberg because of the way Ginsberg approached the work of Poe. Lennon saw himself as the real deal, much like Poe was; Ginsberg was faking the funk, and didn’t do Poe’s work the justice it deserved – his interpretations were lacking and fell short, and he metaphorically “kicked” or damaged the poet’s writings.
‘The Walrus and the Carpenter’ is a poem recited by the fat twins, Tweedledum and Tweedledee, to Alice in Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking-Glass. The precise meaning of the poem remains elusive, but it remains a popular poem and a classic example of Victorian nonsense verse. It may be foolhardy to attempt an analysis or critical commentary where nonsense literature is concerned, but it’s worth delving a little deeper into this unusual poem.
Perhaps, of all Lewis Carroll’s poems, ‘The Walrus and the Carpenter’ has attracted the most commentary and speculation concerning its ultimate ‘meaning’. Some commentators have interpreted the predatory walrus and carpenter as representing, respectively, Buddha (because the walrus is large) and Jesus (the carpenter being the trade Jesus was raised in). It’s unlikely that this was Carroll’s intention, not least because the carpenter could easily walrus-and-the-carpenter-tenniel-carrollhave been a butterfly or a baronet instead: he actually gave his illustrator, John Tenniel, the choice, so it was Tenniel who selected ‘carpenter’. Although it’s a longer poem than, say, ‘Jabberwocky’, ‘The Walrus and the Carpenter’ is fairly easy to summarise. The two title characters, while walking along a beach, find a bed of oysters and proceed to eat the lot. But we’re clearly in a nonsense-world here, a world of fantasy: the sun and the moon are both out on this night. The oysters can walk and even wear shoes, even though they don’t have any feet. No, they don’t have feet, but they do have ‘heads’, and are described as being in their beds – with ‘bed’ here going beyond the meaning of ‘sea bed’ and instead conjuring up the absurdly comical idea of the oysters tucked up in bed asleep. The question of gender is often curious in the case of nonsense literature. Which is the male and which the female in Lear’s ‘The Owl and the Pussycat’? Here, the sun is presented as male and the moon female, which is as we might expect, given the traditional associations in literature between the moon and notions of pallor, beauty, and ethereal charm, all of which have also long been associated (by poets from the Renaissance through to the Romantics and beyond) with femininity. The sun is a bold interloper, refusing to set when night comes on and instead boldly and presumptuously encroaching on the moon’s patch. Yet the two central figures, however we analyse or interpret their significance, appear to be male – the moustachioed walrus and the pragmatic carpenter, suggesting Jesus, Joseph, and other handymen. Their dream is to see the sands of the beach swept away by ‘seven maids with seven mops’ – putting women into servitude in order to clear away the sand, which they dislike for some unspecified reason. The story of ‘The Walrus and the Carpenter’ is, in one sense, the story of encroachment and entitlement: the sun upon the moon’s territory or time, the walrus and the carpenters upon the oysters, which they presume to eat – because they can. It’s therefore possible to read the poem as a commentary on man’s use – or abuse, or even exploitation – of others in order to get what he wants: the walrus is the fat cat (to mix our animal metaphors) and the carpenter his artisan partner whom he co-opts for his venture, subjugating and then feeding upon the poor oysters. Or at least, such a fanciful interpretation might be tenable, if it weren’t for the fact that, as we mentioned above, Carroll nearly wrote a poem called ‘The Walrus and the Butterfly’. In the last analysis, all such readings of the poem in terms of class, gender, and contemporary politics run the risk of overlooking that fact, and the more salient fact, that nonsense doesn’t like to offer itself up to easily graspable analytical readings. We might talk of many things, but what remains are the comical images and the delightful play of language – nonsense or otherwise.
Who is the Walrus?
"Walrus is just saying a dream," recalled John more than a decade after he composed it. "The words didn't mean a lot. People draw so many conclusions, and it's ridiculous. I've had tongue in cheek all along--all of them had tongue in cheek. Just because other people see depths of whatever in it...What does it really mean, 'I am the Eggman?' It could have been 'The pudding Basin' for all I care. It's not that serious." John also wanted to make a point about fellow musical icon Bob Dylan, who, according to John, had been "getting away with murder." John said he wanted to show his fans that he "could write that crap too." "I Am The Walrus," the song with no rhyme or reason, was written in three parts. Meaningless gibberish or not, many of the song's lyrics did have an inspiration. The song's opening verse, "I am he as you are he as you are me and we are all together," comes from the song "Marching to Pretoria," which contains the lyric, "I'm with you as you're with me and we are all together." "See how they run, like pigs from a gun, see how they fly..." came the next week directly from John. The song's basic rhythm was actually inspired by a police siren. John heard an oscillating siren blaring in his neighborhood, and this beat served as the basic beat for the entire tune. "Sitting in a English garden" refers to John's garden in his Weybridge home, where he was living, frustrated and increasingly unhappy, with his first wife, Cynthia. The lyric "Waiting for the man to come" was written by John, but was amended with "waiting for the van to come" by John's friend from his high school days, Pete Shotton, who was present during the song's composition. The "elementary penguin" was used by John as a jab at those who "go around chanting Hare Krishna or put all their faith in one idol." John admitted he had poet Allen Ginsburg in mind when he wrote the lyric. (Could he also have wanted to get a sly dig in at his bandmate George Harrison, who was enthralled by all things Indian and Hare Krishna?) Needing a bit for the song's middle section, John asked his old pal Pete to recall a "sick" schoolboy poem the two used to recite together. Pete dredged up the old lyrics: "Yellow matter custard, green slop pie,
Dripping from a dead dog's eye,
Slap it on a butty, ten foot thick,
Then wash it all down with a cup of cold sick." The constantly repeated and apparently nonsense lyrics "Goo goo gajoob" come from James Joyce's "Finnegan's Wake." (The actual term Joyce used was "Goo goo goosth.") Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking Glass (one of John's favorite books when he was a youth) gave Lennon the song's title and recurring lyric, "I am the walrus." In that book, Carroll included the poem "The Walrus and the Carpenter." John, always the most political Beatle, had it "dawn on" him that the poem was Carroll's comment on "the capitalist and worker system." It wasn't until later that John realized that the walrus was "the bad guy" in the poem and that he should have called the song "I am the Carpenter." "But that wouldn't have been the same, would it?" admitted John. Another apparent nonsense lyric was "Semolina Pilchard." Many Beatles "experts" have interpreted this as referring to Detective Sergeant Norman Pilcher, who was becoming famous for his drug busts of famous musicians. John himself, along with his then-girlfriend Yoko, was to be arrested in a bust by Sergeant Pilcher a year later. John always insisted the marijuana found at his flat was planted. (Sergeant Pilcher later served six years in prison for his corrupt behavior.) But this "interpretation" may be entirely conjecture, as John can clearly be heard singing "Semolina Pilchard," not Pilcher. A "pilchard" is defined as one of "various small marine fishes relating to a herring." It is a commercially edible species of fish. The line may just simply be another bit of Lennon-esque gibberish and wordplay. Who is the Egg Man?
"I am the egg man" has been interpreted as referring to Humpty Dumpty (who appears in John's beloved "Alice in Wonderland" books). Eric Burden, a popular singer,musician and a close friend of John, has claimed that he was "the egg man," and that the lyric refers to a certain egg breaking act Eric used to perform with women. (Eric says he would crack eggs over women and that John witnessed him doing it one night.) The song's closing features a snippet from a BBC Radio broadcast of Shakespeare's King Lear, which John happened to hear when he was working on the song. At the song's conclusion, the entire chorus (8 males and 8 females) join in. John said the guys sang "Oompah oompah, stick it in your jumper," while the girls sang "Everybody's got one." But according to Beatles expert Mark Lewisohn (a highly reliable source), the chorus was entirely random with both men and women joining in on each of the two lyrics. "I Am The Walrus" was the first song the Beatles recorded after the death of their manager, Brian Epstein. Engineer Geoff Emerick was never to forget "the look of emptiness on their faces when they were playing." It was the B-side of the Beatles single featuring Paul's "Hello Goodbye" as the A-side. John was always angered by this decision, maintaining that "Walrus" was a far superior song. A filmed sequence of "I Am The Walrus" was to be featured in the Beatles TV movie, Magical Mystery Tour, later that year. It remains the only film of John singing the song. For this reason, Paul has said Magical Mystery Tour has "a special place in [his] heart."
John Lennon wrote this song. As stated in the DVD Composing the Beatles Songbook, John was throwing together nonsense lyrics to mess with the heads of scholars trying to dissect The Beatles songs. They also mention that it's John's answer to Bob Dylan's "getting away with murder" style of songwriting. 
Lennon explained the origins of this song in an interview: "The first line was written on one trip one weekend. The second line was written on the next trip the next weekend, and it was filled in after I met Yoko. Part of it was putting down Hare Krishna. All these people were going on about Hare Krishna, Allen Ginsberg in particular. The reference to 'Element'ry penguin' is the elementary, naive attitude of going around chanting, 'Hare Krishna,' or putting all your faith in any one idol. I was writing obscurely, a la Dylan, in those days."
Lennon got the idea for the oblique lyrics when he received a letter from a student who explained that his English teacher was having the class analyze Beatles songs. Lennon answered the letter; his reply was sold as memorabilia at a 1992 auction. 
The voices at the end of the song came from a BBC broadcast of the Shakespeare play King Lear, which John Lennon heard when he turned on the radio while they were working on the song. He decided to mix bits of the broadcast into the song, resulting in some radio static and disjointed bits of dialogue. The section of King Lear used came from Act Four, Scene 6, with Oswald saying: "Slave, thou hast slain me. Villain, take my purse," which comes in at the 3:52 mark. After Oswald dies, we hear this dialogue: Edgar: "I know thee well: a serviceable villain, As duteous to the vices of thy mistress As badness would desire." Gloucester: "What, is he dead?" Edgar: "Sit you down, father. Rest you."
The idea for the Walrus came from the poem The Walrus and The Carpenter, which is from the sequel to Alice in Wonderland called Through the Looking-Glass. In an interview, Lennon said: "It never dawned on me that Lewis Carroll was commenting on the capitalist and social system. I never went into that bit about what he really meant, like people are doing with the Beatles' work. Later, I went back and looked at it and realized that the walrus was the bad guy in the story and the carpenter was the good guy. I thought, I picked the wrong guy. I should have said, 'I am the carpenter.' But that wouldn't have been the same, would it?"
When Lennon decided to write confusing lyrics, he asked his friend Pete Shotton for a nursery rhyme they used to sing. Shotton gave them this rhyme, which Lennon incorporated into the song: Yellow matter custard, green slop pie
All mixed together with a dead dog's eye
Slap it on a butty, ten foot thick
Then wash it all down with a cup of cold sick
The song's opening line, "I am he as you are he as you are me and we are all together" is based on the song "Marching To Pretoria," which contains the lyric, "I'm with you and you're with me and we are all together." 
The choir at the end sings, "Oompah, oompah, stick it in your jumper" and "Everybody's got one, everybody's got one."
This song helped fuel the rumor that Paul McCartney was dead. It's quite a stretch, but theorists found these clues in the lyrics, none of which are substantiated: "Waiting for the van to come" means the three remaining Beatles are waiting for a police van to come. "Pretty little policemen in a row" means policemen did show up. "Goo goo ga joob" were the final words that Humpty Dumpty said before he fell off the wall and died. During the fade, while the choir sings, a voice says "Bury Me" which is what Paul might have said after he died. During the fade, we hear someone reciting the death scene from Shakespeare's play "King Lear." In addition, a rumor circulated that Walrus was Greek for "corpse" (it isn't) in Greek, so that is what people thought of Paul being the Walrus. Also, in the video, the walrus was the only dark costume.
The BBC banned this for the lines "pornographic priestess" and "let your knickers down."
This was released as the B-side to "Hello Goodbye," which Paul McCartney wrote. This angered Lennon because he felt this was much better.
In The Beatles song "Glass Onion," Lennon sang, "The Walrus was Paul." He got a kick out of how people tried to interpret his lyrics and figure out who the Walrus was.
Lennon got the line "Goo Goo Ga Joob" from the book Finnegan's Wake by James Joyce. "Semolina Pilchard" was Detective Sergeant Norman Pilcher, head of the Scotland Yard Drugs Unit. He led the arrests of both John Lennon and Brian Jones et al, before being investigated himself for blackmail and bribery in the '70s. 
Eric Burdon (of Animals and War fame) stated in his biography that he is the Egg Man. It seems he told John Lennon a story where an egg played a major part. After that, John called him Egg Man.
ELO's song "Hello My Old Friend" has an identical form to this - almost the same tune and orchestration but different words. No wonder Jeff Lynne is sometimes referred to as the sixth Beatle.
In The Beatles Lyrics, journalist Hunter Davies explains that he was with John Lennon when the song first came to him. They were swimming in a pool when a police siren sounded outside. It triggered a rhythm in Lennon's head, and he later added to that rhythm the words, "Mist-er Cit-ee police-man sitting pretty." Lennon related this same story to Jonathan Cott in 1968, saying, "I had this idea of doing a song that was a police siren, but it didn't work in the end... You couldn't really sing the police siren."
In an episode of The Simpsons, Bart and Milhouse break into a secret room in the Flanders' household to discover that Ned is a Beatles fanatic. Bart takes a sip from a can of 40-year-old Beatles-themed novelty soda and quotes this song: "Yellow matter custard dripping from a dead dog's eye," while Milhouse takes a trip and sees various Beatles inspired hallucinations. 
Styx covered this song in 2004 and made a music video for it with a cameo from Billy Bob Thornton. They performed it at Eric Clapton's Crossroads benefit that year, and incorporated it into their set lists. Their version appears on their One with Everything DVD. 
After John Lennon went solo, he wrote a song called "God" where he sang, "I was the walrus, but now I am John." 
Artists to cover this song include Guided By Voices, Jackyl, Phil Lesh, Love,Hate, Men Without Hats, Oasis, Oingo Boingo, Spooky Tooth and Styx. The Dead Milkmen recorded a completely different song with the same title in 1987.
Frank Zappa and the Mothers Of Invention performed the song as part of their late '70s - early '80s live repertoire, giving it their own comic treatment. It was a favorite of the fans. 
Bono sings this song in the movie Across the Universe, a film centered around the music of The Beatles. In the film, he plays Dr. Robert, also a reference to another Beatles song. 
This was the first song the Beatles recorded after Brian Epstein's death. Engineer Geoff Emerick recalled, "the look of emptiness on their faces when they were playing."
John Lennon's "I'm Crying..." lyric came from the Smokey Robinson & the Miracles song "Ooh Baby Baby," where Robinson sings that phrase in the refrain.
In the Anthology version of this song, they experiment with four octaves in the intro. Also, just before Lennon says, "Sitting in an English garden waiting for the sun," Ringo does two hits on snare and floor tom before hitting crash. Walruses have long tusks and a prominent mustache. These large marine mammals are found near the Arctic Circle. They are extremely social and snort and bellow loudly at their companions. During the mating season they are quite aggressive. Walruses have wrinkled brown and pink skin, long, coarse whiskers, flat flippers, and lots of blubber on their bodies to keep them warm in the cold Arctic water. They can slow down their heartbeat to withstand the chilly water temperatures and to help them stay under water for as long as ten minutes. Their long tusks are useful in many ways. They use them to pull their enormous bodies out of frigid waters, and seem to walk on their tusks. They also use their tusks to break breathing holes into ice from below. Tusks are found on both males and females and keep growing throughout their lives. These tusks are actually canine teeth and can grow to be about three feet (one meter) long. Their whiskers are very sensitive and help the walruses find their favorite meals, such as clams, way down in the deep, dark ocean floor. Their whiskers are longest at the corners of their mouth. Only Native Americans are currently allowed to hunt walruses, as the species' survival was threatened by past overhunting. Hunters in the 18th and 19th centuries captured walruses for their tusks, oil, skin, and meat and now there aren’t any walruses in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and around Sable Island, off the coast of Nova Scotia.
Walruses don't seem to have a clear-cut stereotype of their own. While it's usually agreed that walrus characters should be big, fat, and lazy, their moral standing tends to vary. While some works portray walruses as villains, this page is for walruses who are depicted more positively. There are quite a few reasons why they are portrayed this way. Most notably, their big, blubbery appearance seems to indicate Big Fun, in the same vein as hippos and bears. It helps that Real Life walruses are far less dangerous to humans than those other animals are, preferring to slip away rather than attack when threatened. Another factor in their portrayal as heroes may have something to do with the fact that they are related to seals, which are almost universally loved due to their cuteness and playfulness. Walruses may be seen in a similar way, albeit more placid and less energetic. In works that do not aim for realism, Warm-Hearted Walruses tend to differ in physical appearance from real ones. For one thing, they may be portrayed as smaller and softer-looking, with much smoother skin. Their most notable features, the tusks, are much smaller and rounded than they would be in real life. Instead of a walrus' dull pinkish-brown skin, a friendly walrus is given a brighter, more lively color like blue or purple.
Walruses are strange creatures, and ones that most people have little experience with. Perhaps this is the reason why they are a Seldom-Seen Species in comparison to cats, foxes, reptiles, etc. Perhaps it is also the reason that their depiction in the media is so heavily influenced by their appearance. Real Life walruses are commonly seen as fat blobs who lay around on rocks, but many of their features translate readily into an anthropomorphized character with a distinctive personality. Their wrinkly skin, bald heads, and bushy snouts resembling big mustaches give them the appearance of a Grumpy Old Man. As a result, female and/or young walruses in media are rare. They're also big and blubbery, leading to their portrayal as lazy, gluttonous, and slow-moving. Despite this perceived passivity, their massive tusks and sheer bulk make them appear powerful and potentially dangerous. Villainous walruses are a popular version, combining Bald of Evil, Fangs Are Evil, Good Hair, Evil Hair, and Fat Bastard into one Obviously Evil package. This portrayal finds further fuel in the fact that they're predators who feast on all sorts of animals, from fish, to molluscs (such as clams and squid), to crustaceans (such as crabs), to occasionally other seals. They hunt in the murky depths of the ocean, in waters dark and cold. They also eat large amounts of food, making them seem like Villainous Gluttons. The Trope Codifier for the villainous variety is the poem "The Walrus and the Carpenter" from Through the Looking-Glass, featuring a sneaky, gluttonous walrus luring innocent oysters to their doom. He has been the inspiration for many a Wily Walrus. Wily Walruses can be presented in a variety of ways. Some creators find that the bushy, mustache-like snouts of real walruses make for a good Dastardly Whiplash. Other works portray them as brutal beasts, like a mammalian version of the typical Sea Monster. Another factor that may have lead to their villainous portrayals - especially the more brutish ones - is the remarkable sounds they make. Would you believe that walruses grunt and growl? In fact, walruses were even used for some of the dinosaur sounds in Jurassic Park! In video games, walruses are commonly seen as enemies - or even bosses - in the Slippy-Slidey Ice World. While this is logical, as walruses are mainly found in the Northern seas, they are sometimes paired with animals such as penguins, which is not logical. Good or neutral walruses still tend to feature at least one of the negative stereotypes associated with the animal's physical appearance, whether it be a grumpy and curmudgeonly personality, a tendency towards gluttony, or extreme laziness.
Did you know that Paul McCartney, the ex-Beatle, never actually left the band because . . . he died in 1966 and was then replaced by a lookalike? It sounds bizarre, and it is. The “Paul is dead” myth is one of the most popular myths set in the world of rock music and perhaps the most fun to follow up. John Lennon and Paul McCartney are shown on their arrival at Palam airport, near Delhi, India, on their way to meet with their guru, The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. It all began when Russ Gibb, a DJ for Detroit’s underground station WKNR-FM, received a phone call by a man named “Tom,” who claimed that some Beatles records contained hidden clues suggesting that Paul McCartney had actually died. The evidence for a conspiracy revolved around the theory that Paul had been decapitated in an automobile wreck after he left Abbey Road studios in London, where the Beatles recorded their music. Paul had apparently left upset over an argument with the other Beatles, took his Aston Martin sportscar, and perished in a horrible accident that killed him. This accident supposedly took place at 5 a.m. and was caused by a hitchhiker named Rita who Paul had picked up along the road. With Paul’s death, however, a big problem arose: the Beatles were at the peak of their career and the loss of one of their members would mean the end of the show for them and for the industry behind them. Thus, somebody had the idea of never revealing Paul’s death and hiring an impostor in his place, somebody who looked like him and could play music. Some sources claimed that the imposter was an actor named William Campbell, the winner of a Paul McCartney lookalike contest and, conveniently, an orphan from Edinburgh. Of course, it didn’t hurt to assume that Campbell could write the same type of songs as McCartney and just happened to have the same voice. The arrival of an impostor in November 1966, then, could have explained why the Beatles stopped touring that same year (it would have been too easy to spot a fake McCartney performance on stage) and started to grow moustaches (the face was almost identical, but not perfect: it needed some disguise). However, this terrible secret generated in the remaining Beatles, John Lennon, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr, a strong sense of guilt and induced them to insert many hints and clues to the truth in their songs and album covers. I Buried Paul
Abbey Road cover art contains many clues to Paul McCartney’s (non)death.
Abbey Road cover art contains many clues to Paul McCartney’s (non)death. What had revealed the existence of a conspiracy to the mysterious “Tom” was the publication, two weeks before his telephone call, of the Beatles’s latest album, titled Abbey Road. The album cover showed the four Beatles walking in a single file across the now-famous crosswalk at Abbey Road. This was thought to symbolize a funeral procession: John Lennon, dressed in white, represented the Church (and white is the traditional color of mourning in many Eastern cultures); Ringo, dressed in black, represented the undertaker. Paul was out of step with the other three Beatles, with his eyes closed and barefoot: in a number of societies, it appears that corpses are buried without their shoes; furthermore, Paul held a cigarette in his right hand, when everybody knew that the real McCartney was left-handed! George Harrison, last in line, was dressed in work clothes and, to many, represented the gravedigger. On the street there is also a parked Volkswagen Beetle whose license plate shows an eerie message: “LMW 28IF,” interpreted to mean that Paul would have been twenty-eight if he had lived. The fact that Paul was actually twenty-seven years old when Abbey Road was released doesn’t seem to make much difference, for in far Eastern societies (the Beatles had quite a fascination with the Far East) an individual’s birth included the time spent in the mother’s womb. In that case, Paul would indeed have been twenty-eight. These “revelations” quickly launched an unprecedented outbreak of hysteria in the pop world and in the media, as more and more “clues” were found in previous Beatles records. First of all, the clue-diggers looked at Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, the first album that the Beatles recorded after Paul’s supposed demise. The record was among the most influential in music history. The cover, another famous picture, showed the four Beatles dressed in band uniforms, gathered around a bass drum bearing the album title and with a crowd of cut-out people around them. It proved to be a goldmine for clue-diggers. Again, the spectators resembled the mourners at a funeral and the flowers in front of them not only spelled the word “Beatles,” but also a set of yellow hyacinths formed the shape of a left-handed bass guitar, McCartney’s instrument. Paul had a right hand raised above his head: again, supposedly, in certain Far Eastern societies, this was a symbol of death. Also, while the other Beatles held bright, golden, band instruments, Paul held a black clarinet: another supposed symbol of mourning? A doll wore a striped “Welcome the Rolling Stones” sweatshirt: on her leg there is a small model car, strongly resembling an Aston Martin that seems to be heading towards the word “Stones.” Perhaps a hint of the accident? If you then held a flat mirror perpendicular to the center of the words “Lonely Hearts” appearing on the bass drum this hidden message appeared: “I ONE IX HE <> DIE”. “I ONE IX” is a direct reference to the supposed fatal crash day (11/9/66), “HE” refers to Paul, as the diamond that points directly to McCartney confirms, “DIE”. In the open album jacket, the Beatles appear still in the Sgt. Pepper’s uniforms and McCartney wore an arm patch that read “OPD”: an abbreviation for “Officially Pronounced Dead”? This was also the first album in history that included the lyrics to the songs appearing in the record, and they were published on the back cover, along with a picture of the four Beatles in their outfits. Strangely, Paul is the only one turning his back to the camera, and also strange is the fact that George’s thumb points to the opening lines of “She’s Leaving Home.” The lyric states: “Wednesday morning at five o’clock as the day begins,” another reference to the day and time of Paul’s fatal accident? In another song of the album, “A Day in the Life,” John sings “He blew his mind out in a car,” and in another, “Good Morning, Good Morning,” he starts by singing: “Nothing to do to save his life” (and was the title a play on the words “morning” and “mourning”?) And what about “Lovely Rita”? Was the song a reference to the girl that caused Paul’s death? Could be, since in it McCartney (or the imposter) sings: “Took her home and nearly made it.” More clues were also found in subsequent albums. The Magical Mystery Tour cover showed the Beatles dressed in animal costumes. In the centre was a black walrus and, in certain Scandinavian countries, a walrus is considered a harbinger of death. Was the imposter dressed in the walrus skin? Apparently not, for John Lennon sings in the album the song titled “I am the Walrus.” But on the album cover, as if scribbled later, the complete title appears to be: “I am the Walrus (‘No You’re Not!’ Said Little Nicola).” So who was the walrus? In a later Beatles release (titled simply The Beatles, the record became better known as the White Album because the cover was plain white), in a song titled “Glass Onion,” Lennon sings: “Well here’s another clue for you all, the walrus was Paul”! On the booklet included in Magical Mystery Tour, the clues abounded: Paul is shoeless in some pictures, is the only one to wear a black flower on his lapel while the others are red, has a hand above his head in various pictures, and he even sits behind a sign stating “I Was.” Near the end of the song “Strawberry Fields Forever,” upon careful listening, a faint voice stated something like “I buried Paul.” You could also turn the Magical Mystery Tour album jacket upside-down and look at its reflection in the mirror: the title, detailed as stars, became the digits to a phone number. The rumor further explained that if the numbers were dialed, the listener would get the true details of Paul McCartney’s death. On the White Album, if you listened to a strange murmuring following the song “I’m So Tired,” you couldn’t make out what it said. But, should you decide to play the record backwards the words became something like: “Paul is dead now, miss him, miss him, miss him.” Nothing compared to the chilling revelations of “Revolution No. 9,” where, after reversing the song, you could hear a voice saying: “Turn me on dead man,” and then the sound of a terrible collision, the sounds of crackling flames and a voice screaming “Let me out! Let me out!” A recreation of Paul’s terrible accident? “My death? An exaggeration”
It seems unimaginable that the American public would believe such an unfounded rumor. However, this same generation had been raised on the idea that there may have been a conspiracy to kill President John F. Kennedy and that the Warren Commission had actually worked to hide this fact from the public. Would it be so impossible, then, to believe that Paul McCartney’s death may have been hidden from the public? The rumors became so noisy that Paul McCartney himself had to reassure his fans that he was still alive. In an exclusive interview with Life magazine, he stated, paraphrasing Mark Twain, that “Rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated. However, if I was dead, I’m sure I’d be the last to know.” He also offered a number of explanations for the mysterious clues. The OPD patch he wore on Sgt. Pepper’s actually meant “Ontario Police Department”; he wore a black flower in Magical Mystery Tour because they had run out of red ones; it was John wearing the walrus outfit and, on Abbey Road, he was barefoot only because it was a hot day. Other “clues” had similar simpler explanations: John did not say “I buried Paul” at the end of “Strawberry Fields” but, as can be clearly heard now on a clearer take of the song in Anthology 3, he says “cranberry sauce.” However, while it is true that most clues can be easily attributed to coincidence and wishful thinking, there are little things that must have been put there by the Beatles for some purpose, like the various “walrus” claims, the backward messages, and some other hints in the album covers. It may just be, as John Lennon said, that they only wanted to have a laugh at the expense of those critics reading cryptic messages in everything they did. What is sadly true is the fact that Charles Manson and his “family” also believed that there were hidden messages in Beatles songs hinting at the Armageddon. He thought that the Fab Four were actually angels sent by God to reveal the secrets of the approaching apocalypse and that, in order to start the end of the world, they needed Manson’s help. This is the tragically absurd reasoning he gave for the murder of Sharon Tate, the pregnant wife of film director Roman Polanski, and the guests she was hosting at their house in Hollywood. According to R. Gary Patterson, author of the well-researched The Walrus Was Paul (New York: Fireside, 1996), “Perhaps the Beatles became concerned that if they admitted to planting clues they could very well be charged in some sort of conspiracy that would indirectly link them to the Manson murders. Perhaps it would be much safer to give up the hoax and deny it ever happened. This way, the Beatles would be safe from any lawsuit implicating the band members.” Perhaps. In a lighter vein, however, the rumor also helped to further boost the sale of the Beatles catalog and inspired a lot of cartoons and comedy skits, like one that was presented on The Ed Sullivan Show, involving two angels in heaven: Angel One: Is there any truth to the rumor that Paul McCartney is still alive? Angel Two: I doubt it. Where do you think we get those groovy harp arrangements?
The walrus is easy to identify thanks to the tusks and to the shape of its head. It is also found in many aspects of popular culture including legends, history, books, films, and more. For those of you are that very impressed with the walrus, exploring these options will provide you with plenty of great insight. Some of the materials are entertaining while others are based on facts.

There is a great deal of history combined with legends involving the walrus and the people that have lived for centuries in the Artic cold. They understand all too well that without the walrus they wouldn’t have been able to survive. Their early ancestors killed the walrus for meat. They also found great ways to benefit from just about everything that the body of the walrus had to offer. They were very thankful for this and often included the walrus in their dance rituals and ceremonies.

There are stories to reference that the walrus was actually a person at one time that sacrificed itself to offer food, shelter, and clothing to the people of the Artic. There are quite a few versions of this story. One includes a father that pushed his daughter off a cliff and saw her turn into a walrus before she hit the water.

Children seem to be in love with the look of the walrus so it has allowed it to be a prime character for many books. One of the best known is called the Walrus and the Carpenter. It is also one of the earliest known books to include this animal as it was written in 1871. Another great influence for it is a song by the Beatles called I am the Walrus.

One of the best documentaries on the topic is called Toothwalkers: Giants of the Arctic Ice. It took five years for this husband and wife team to complete the project. There is some great footage of the walruses including a great deal of it taken underneath the water. It originally aired on PBS and can also be found on DVD.

Growing up Walrus is another great film that is offered by Animal Planet. It is older though so you will only find it offered on VHS. You can also check the schedule for animal planet as they often run such programming at different intervals.

Some people take a keen interest in the migration process of the walrus. In some areas you can take a cruise which allows you to see the herds of them in movement. These types of events that are a combination of a relaxing vacation and an educational learning environment continue to be more and more popular all the time. Yet they are also an issue of concern as it is believed they can create unnecessary stress for the walruses to deal with.

Many books depict the mothers and the offspring together. This is because they portray many characteristics that are similar to humans. The purpose of these books is to offer education but also to help people to see the value of these animals. When they can relate to them on a personal level they will be encouraged to protect them.

You can find all of these types of references and resources about walruses online. Investing in them is a treat because you can your family will be able to enjoy them again and again. They are great looking creatures which is another reason they are familiar to people and commonly used in our culture. For some the walrus is tied deeply to their ancestors and for others it is a source of entertainment and fascination.
Walruses play a very prominent role in many cultures, including Chukchi, Inuit, and Yupik peoples. They are a main source of food, oil, and tools. Walruses are hunted and, before the invention of modern technology, every part was used. The skins and intestines were used for rope and parkas. The blubber was used for oil, and the bones were used to make tools and weapons. Nowadays, however, walruses are merely used for their ivory tusks. Quite often, hunters will kill a walrus, cut off the tusks, then leave the rest of the carcass to waste. It's an embarassing example of how quickly humanity becomes complacant in the face of ease.

Walruses are in native religions, as well. An old Inuit tale describes a walrus-headed woman who rules the sea from the ocean floor. Many Alaskan native peoples believe that Aurora Borealis is caused by deceased souls playing ball with a walrus head. The legendary Beatles have a song titled "I am the Walrus", and a famous poem by Lewis Carroll called The Walrus and the Carpenter tells of a walrus and his friend tricking a couple of young oysters into following them to be devoured.
The oral traditions of the Yup'ik people of Togiak, Alaska tell of two parties of walrus hunters who traveled to Qayassiq or `Place to Go in a Kayak' on a calm autumn day in 1962. After harvesting several walruses on the beach, the crews returned home. As they distributed the meat throughout the village, enforcement agents of the newly created state of Alaska arrived in a small plane. They announced that the walrus hunt was illegal and bound a hunter in handcuffs. When the villagers demanded an explanation, they learned that Qayassiq, which in English is named `Round Island,' was now part of the Walrus Islands State Game Sanctuary. Without their knowledge, Qayassiq had been closed to all hunting. The enforcement officers decided to use the incident as a warning and dropped the charges. Most of the Togiak walrus hunters did not set foot on the island again.

It took over 30 years to reopen Qayassiq to walrus hunting. On October 14, 1995, hunters from Togiak traveled to Round Island and harvested two walruses in a hunt they helped design and run. How they and crews from six other Yup'ik communities returned to the island is the story of one of the first co-managed hunts in Alaska.

Qayassiq

In the millennia that Alaska Natives have lived in the Bristol Bay region of southwest Alaska, subsistence hunting of walrus, seals, and other wild resources has sustained their communities and culture. Archaeological evidence of walrus includes bone, carved ivory objects, and unworked ivory. Walrus was choice food, including the hide, fat, muscle tissue, flippers, head, and various internal organs.

European exploration of Bristol Bay began with Captain James Cook in 1778 who sighted and [re]named Round Island. In 1818, the Russian explorer Petr Korsakovskiy visited the Walrus Islands. His Yup'ik guides said that many walruses `hauled out,' or beached themselves to rest, the people of Togiak traveled to the islands in skin boats, and one of the islands was named `Kaiashikh' (Qayassiq).

Qayassiq was especially important for walrus hunting because it was accessible in good weather; walruses were predictably present on the beach during the preferred fall hunt; and the beach is rocky, not sandy, promoting clean and efficient butchering. Hunting on haulouts was a highly organized activity because it was essential that walruses be treated in a proper manner called cakarpeknaki, or `with respect and without waste.' Only the best marksmen were permitted to harpoon or shoot walrus. With boats beached at either end of a group of walruses, the hunters walked by the walruses closest to the water, selecting younger, choicer animals towards the higher rocks and cliffs. Walruses were quickly taken with a thrust or shot near the back of the head. Harvests were limited by the capacity of boats to transport the kill back to mainland villages.

Walrus hunts on land were contexts during which traditional values were passed across generations. The rules governing hunting were in the words of an elder, "written only in the minds of hunters." Young men had to demonstrate their knowledge of these rules to earn the respect of senior hunters and the right to lead hunts themselves. As technology evolved in the 1930s and 1940s from skin boats, spears, and harpoons, to wooden boats, outboard motors, and rifles, successful hunting on Round Island continued to depend on the traditional knowledge of beach hunting techniques.

The Walrus Islands State Game Sanctuary

During the 19th century, walrus populations declined markedly due to commercial hunting by EuroAmericans for oil, hides, and ivory. By the mid-20th century, commercial hunting was restricted and walrus populations began to recover. In 1960, Alaska legislature created the Walrus Islands State Game Sanctuary to protect North America's last terrestrial walrus haulout at Round Island.

Biological research in the 1950s highlighted the importance of protecting the haulout. These investigations also reported allegations of wasting walruses. In a well-publicized incident in 1958, biologists found 32 dead walruses on Round Island with the tusks missing and only about 100 pounds of meat salvaged. The legislature did not specifically ban hunting in the sanctuary, but found that "the Walrus Islands are uninhabited and the walruses frequenting them are not required by the state for subsistence [purposes]." At that time, biological reports contained virtually no acknowledgment of Yup'ik's use of Round Island walrus for subsistence purposes.

Regulations adopted by the Alaska Board of Game forbade hunting in most of the sanctuary, including Round Island. They stationed research and enforcement crews on the island in the summer months. A wildlife viewing clientele began to camp there and their access was regulated under a permit system.

In 1972, with the passage of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), the federal government assumed management authority for walrus in Alaska. Under the MMPA, non-wasteful subsistence hunting of marine mammals by Alaska Natives may be restricted only if a population is depleted. With a recovery to about 250,000 animals by 1980, Alaska's walrus population was healthy once more. Each summer, between 8,000 to 12,000 male walruses hauled out on Round Island beaches. However, the sanctuary remained closed to walrus hunting.


Denied access to their primary traditional hunting area, the people of Togiak continued to use walrus and hunted from boats in open water, which in contrast to on-shore hunting, resulted in the loss of many animals due to sinking. One elder called this "hunting by accident," attributing success mostly to luck. Nevertheless, he said, "Since there is no other choice and other island hunts don't produce walrus, we take our chances at sea." Another explained:

"There's a few of us left from past traditional walrus hunts at Round Island and since the closure or our traditional hunting site, we have no one specific and reliable harvest site to take our young men to train during the traditional walrus harvest seasons...We do take our children now for them to observe our [hunting] mishaps with walrus at sea, but this is just not true hunting. This is harassment to the point of kill and many times the kill is not even retrieved."

Togiak residents also combed beaches to salvage hide, blubber, and ivory from dead walruses. Although this activity provided some hide and blubber when fresh carcasses were encountered, most yielded little food because of their advanced state of decay. A hunter recounted a story of a walrus he found half buried in the sand. He salvaged portions "even though the meat was green in appearance and the hide and blubber very thin." He remarked that, "Sometimes our desire for walrus meat and hide overrides the undesirable condition of the beached carcass."

By 1991, the Togiak Traditional Council (TTC) estimated that there was only about a dozen men in the village with sufficient knowledge of traditional beach hunting methods qualified to lead a walrus hunt to Round Island. All were of late middle-age or older. Eiders noted a loss of traditional values among some young people who had "lost a firm grip on Yup'ik culture."

In August 1991, the TTC submitted a proposal to the Alaska Board of Game to open Round Island in October to hunt up to ten walruses. The proposed hunt would "be administered by the Togiak Traditional Council in cooperation with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game." In justifying its proposal, the TTC predicted "the continued erosion of our culture" if the hunt was not allowed and wrote that,

"The people of Togiak and other Native coastal communities have hunted marine mammals since time immemorial. Since the creation of the Sanctuary, they have been denied access to an important traditional hunting area...The complete closure of Round Island to walrus hunting is not biologically justified. A carefully administered harvest would not adversely affect the walrus population. A hunt after the main haulout season would not adversely affect the recreational and scientific values of the Sanctuary."

In response to the proposal, researchers interviewed walrus hunters in Togiak to produce the first written description of Togiak's walrus hunting traditions in a report to the Board in November. The Board heard testimony from Togiak representatives and biologists. It then decided to defer action because of "unresolved questions regarding...walrus disturbance, level and efficiency of walrus harvest in other areas of Bristol Bay...and the methods and mean of harvests...." They establish a task force "to identify and address the unresolved issues surrounding walrus disturbance" and prepare a report for the spring 1993 Board meeting.

The Task Force held public hearings and reviewed information on the walrus population, hunting on haulouts, and traditional beach hunting methods. Although the Task Force made no recommendation regarding the hunt, it concluded that "a carefully controlled traditional harvest of up to ten walruses from Round Island in October would not have serious impacts on the walrus population or the continued use of the island as a major haulout" and acknowledged "the cultural importance of the proposed hunt to Togiak and other Bristol Bay villages." It recommended that should a hunt occur, it should occur in October after most of the walruses had left the island; a kill limit of ten animals should be established; agency personnel should be stationed on the island to monitor the hunt; and the Board should evaluate the hunt after three years.


After hearing the Task Force findings, the Board rejected the TTC request in March 1993. The Board stated that a lack of federal and state regulatory authority in the matter was a "black hole." Nevertheless, the Board passed a resolution "supporting, in concept, a regulated subsistence walrus hunt on Round Island" and requested that they develop a potential plan showing how the state, USFWS, and TTC might collectively manage such a hunt.

In September 1993, the commissioner announced that they would not pursue such a plan "because neither the state, nor the federal government can regulate the harvest of walrus." Over the next two years, Togiak kept their request alive through letters, petitions, and another proposal to the Board.

In June 1993, just after the rejection, two Togiak residents shot, but did not harvest, a walrus on Round Island. They did not have an access permit and were in violation of the state regulation banning the discharge of firearms on the island. The two individuals were acting without the endorsement of the TIC. This became known as the Arnariak Case, which tested the state's authority to restrict marine mammal hunting in the sanctuary.

In June 1994, the Alaska Superior Court dismissed the charges against the defendants, finding that "It is clear that the federal Marine Mammal Protection Act's authorization for Natives to hunt marine mammals pre-empts any state law which would interfere with such Native activities." The state Court of Appeals upheld the lower courts ruling in July 1995 and the case was sent to the state Supreme Court.

As the Arnariak Case worked its way through the courts, a potential, unregulated walrus hunt by Natives on Round Island pressured government agencies to negotiate with hunters. TTC again submitted a proposal for a hunt. A change of state administrations took place after the November 1994 elections and with it came new board members, a new commissioner, and a change in policy In March 1995, the Board unanimously approved a walrus hunt on Round Island.

A working group formed to develop a co-management plan for the hunt. Representatives of seven Bristol Bay villages founded the Qayassiq Walrus Commission (QWC) to represent the walrus hunters of the region. In September 1995, they signed the Cooperative Agreement Governing Subsistence Walrus Hunting on Round Island, Bristol Bay, Alaska, to conserve the walrus population, provide for subsistence uses of walrus, and protect Round Island as a walrus haulout and state game sanctuary. As part of the plan, the QWC determines who is qualified to lead walrus hunts to Round Island, allocates the allowable take among these crews, and coordinates hunting to minimize disturbance to the walrus. They issued access permits to these hunting captains and their crews. Walrus hunting is allowed between October 1st and October 31st, ending when ten walruses are killed. Hunting occurs in accordance with the MMPA and sanctuary regulations. They conduct a monitoring program to assess the effects of the hunt.

In October 1995, the tradition of hunting walrus on Round Island was renewed. Five hunts occurred involving crews from seven communities. Ten walruses were harvested; four others were struck and lost. Agency personnel monitoring the hunts noted that "Hunters were extremely cooperative and all left the beaches in excellent condition, taking with them virtually every part of the harvested walruses." Most of the tusks were donated to schools for ivory carving classes.

In the 1996 hunt, six walruses were harvested and one struck and lost. Poor weather prevented some villages from hunting. Consequently, the QWC submitted proposals to the Board to extend hunting into late September to accommodate hunters from Nushagak Bay and to increase the quota to 20 walruses, a number more consistent with local needs. The signatories of the co-management plan concluded that both requests were justified based on the performance of the first two years of hunting and the Board adopted the changes with little controversy in March 1997.

The 1997 hunt occurred from September 24th through October 1st. Fifteen walruses were harvested and four others were struck and lost. Agency monitors noted that during the hunts, most walruses abandoned the beaches, but did not swim far off shore. In most cases, the animals reoccupied the beaches within 24 hours. There was no evidence that the hunts had serious effects on the walruses' use of the island as a haulout.

In June 1997, the Alaska Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeals in the Arnariak Case and ruled that the state did have authority to limit access to the sanctuary and prohibit the discharge of fire arms. However, because the co-management plan was working well, the ruling had no practical effect on the Round Island walrus hunt. The court ruling heightened awareness of the need for all parties to work cooperatively.

While the first three years of hunting were generally successful, agency monitors and the QWC identified several potential improvements. These included developing guidelines for firearms and ammunition to reduce the number of animals shot, but not retrieved, limit the number of people participating in any one hunt, and to reduce disturbance. Elders saw the need to instruct younger people in traditional hunting methods to reduce the number of walruses struck and lost. Yet another challenge will be to accommodate other villages without walrus hunting traditions who wish to participate in the hunt.

After decades of contention, Round Island had become "a model of cooperation -- the Round Island [walrus] hunt is a prototype of what can be accomplished when determined local residents make their voices heard and when state and federal officials listen" stated a recent Anchorage Daily News editorial. At the annual convention of the Alaska Federation of Natives, Alaska's governor identified the hunt as a prime example of cooperation between the state and Alaska Natives. The partnership of tribal, federal, and state groups through co-management had helped renew a living cultural tradition while conserving the walrus population at Round Island.

Alaska Native communities along the coast of the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort Seas have lived in close connection with the ocean for thousands of years. The bounty of this rich environment, which includes marine mammals, fish, birds, and plant life, has sustained Alaska’s St. Lawrence Island Yupik, Iñupiaq, Central Yup’ik, and Aleut communities since time immemorial. These Alaska Native communities are an integral part of the ocean ecosystem, maintaining their ties to the ocean through the continuation of the marine subsistence lifestyle. This lifestyle represents a reciprocal relationship with the environment and the animals in which traditions of respect are maintained through sustainable stewardship practices and spiritual expressions of song and dance. It has always been characterized by balance, which has allowed for successful coexistence with the ocean environment.

But this balance is now threatened by climate change, which is resulting in a rapidly and dramatically changing ocean environment. One of the species most impacted by these changes is the Pacific walrus, an important subsistence resource for many Alaska Native communities. In a 2004 interview for a traditional knowledge project, Alexander Akeya, an elder from the community of Savoonga, said, “This walrus has been our food for centuries . . . our food has an overseer. Although I wanted to harvest more, our elders would say, ‘Quit hunting, that is enough. Take care of your food, do not be wasteful. If you waste, you yourself will cause the Creator to cut you off . . . take home enough of what you need, with a limit. This animal, your food, is very important. We want it to live just as we strive to live.’”

Pacific walrus depend on sea ice as a platform for resting, calving, and nursing, and this sea ice habitat is rapidly deteriorating due to climate change. This has opened the door for other impacts to the environment of the Pacific walrus, such as increased shipping and resource exploration activities in the area. Global carbon dioxide emissions are resulting in the rapid acidification of the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort Seas, whose waters are particularly vulnerable to ocean acidification due to their cold temperatures. This in turn has implications for the viability of walrus prey resources, mainly clams, whose shell formation is impacted by the acidity of the water.

These cumulative pressures, largely caused by excessive global carbon dioxide emissions, are of great concern to Alaska Native subsistence communities that depend on healthy and sustainable marine ecosystems. Climate change impacts are already being felt by the subsistence communities in many ways. Thinner sea ice makes for more dangerous hunting conditions and hunters must now travel farther to access marine mammals. Changing weather patterns, partially caused by decreased sea ice presence, are resulting in more severe storms that affect both hunting opportunity and the integrity of shorelines through increased erosion. 

In an interview for another traditional knowledge project in April 2015, Vince Pikonganna, an elder from the King Island Native community, offered his perspective on the impacts of climate change: “Everything is changing. One thing affects another. Mother Nature can take care of herself, it’s just that we the humans are the culprit of what she’s suffering through. She’s reacting to what we’ve been doing to her for a couple hundred years now—all this pollution, destroying the land, and destroying the oceans. We have been told by our ancestors about the future. We’ve been told that [we] will need to watch out for the four winds. The four winds will be getting stronger in the future and unexpected weather patterns will start to be happening. And now it’s happening, right before our eyes. I was practicing how to tell the weather in our Iñupiaq way 30 years ago. But some 20 years ago, everything got chaotic. This weather got chaotic.”

One stark example of climate change impacts on marine subsistence is the walrus harvest disaster that occurred in the communities of Gambell and Savoonga on St. Lawrence Island in 2013. That year, unusual weather conditions and sea ice patterns prevented hunters from accessing the walrus as they migrated past the island, resulting in a record low harvest and food shortages for the communities. The state of Alaska declared a disaster, which leveraged support for food aid from many organizations, but the question remains as to how the communities will adapt if these conditions continue. Since 2013 harvest numbers for Gambell and Savoonga have not returned to normal levels, and the communities of Diomede and Wales, located in the Bering Straits region, have also declared harvest disasters due to similar ice and weather conditions.

Not only does the walrus provide large amounts of nutrition for the communities, but the continued consumption of this subsistence resource is culturally and spiritually important to the people of the communities. Furthermore, raw materials provided by walrus also help meet the material and financial needs of the communities. Alaska Native ivory carvers are renowned for their skill, and the sale of walrus ivory artwork and jewelry are an important source of income in the extremely limited cash economy of rural Alaska. Other material and cultural needs of the communities are also dependent on walrus subsistence, including the making of walrus skin boats for hunting and walrus stomach drums for Native dancing.

In a 2004 interview, Leonard Apangalook of Gambell explained how changing weather has impacted his community: “The ice recedes, goes so fast that our walrus season is very short. And of course we get a lot of wind, too. It’s affecting us now. The animals that we hunt are affected by it and that is how it affects us. I have seen so much change with our climate over the years . . . the enormity of the problem is so big it involves many countries and the whole world.”

The ability of Alaska Natives to continue to sustainably subsist on walrus and other marine mammal resources is an inherent Indigenous right, and climate change is threatening this right. The Pacific walrus is currently under review by the US Fish and Wildlife Service for listing under the Endangered Species Act, not because of current population decline, but because of anticipated impacts to the population over the next 100 years caused by climate change and ocean acidification. As a mitigation measure the Service has suggested future restrictions to subsistence walrus hunting, an approach that the Eskimo Walrus Commission takes issue with. The Eskimo Walrus Commission is an Alaska Native co-management entity representing 19 walrus hunting communities from Barrow to the Bristol Bay region, which advocates on behalf of Alaska Native walrus hunters in the management process. Its mission is to protect the Pacific walrus population. The Commission has expressed the view that because subsistence walrus hunting is not the root cause of the issue with the walrus population, solely focusing on hunting restrictions cannot be a viable management solution.

The gravest threat to the Pacific walrus population, and thus to the Alaska Native subsistence communities that depend on them, is carbon emissions. In December 2014, the Commission passed a resolution urging the US Fish and Wildlife Service to make clear recommendations to the federal government to significantly reduce US carbon emissions and invest in clean energy. Through this resolution, the Commission identified the fact that the current management approach would not only be ineffective in the long term, but would threaten the continued survival of subsistence communities. As an Indigenous organization, the Eskimo Walrus Commission recognizes that threats to the Pacific walrus cannot be addressed on its own. A truly effective management approach must seek to protect not only the walrus, but the whole ecosystem in which it exists, recognizing that the rights of human subsistence communities that interact with and depend on this ecosystem must be protected also.

The air is calm this Arctic morning as Zacharias Kunuk prepares for a long day. His morning routine does nothing to quell his nerves—today he’s going on his first walrus hunt.

It’s 1980, late July—the month walrus hunters climb into motorized freighter canoes and leave Igloolik, a small Inuit community in Nunavut, Canada. Every summer since he was a boy, Kunuk has watched the hunters return, weary but triumphant with walrus meat. He’s always wondered how far these men travel to reach the floating rafts of ice where walruses rest during the summer. And he’s pondered how just a few men can possibly kill a creature that might weigh more than 20 men and then wrestle it into a canoe. This is the day Kunuk will get answers. He also plans to capture it all on camera. A young filmmaker in his mid-20s, Kunuk has a small budget to finance the hunt, a cultural practice so vital to his community’s identity that he wants to record it for future generations.

The temperature on an Arctic summer day rarely exceeds 10 °C, with much cooler air out by the sea ice, so the hunters dress for the climate: skin boots, mittens, and knee-length parkas with fur-lined hoods. Kunuk joins an experienced elder and the man’s brother as they load their boat with harpoons, guns, knives, tea, and bannock (a fry bread). Nearby, other men ready their own freighter canoes.

Then they push off—a tiny flotilla in a great big sea—on their way to hunt an enormous animal. As they travel, the hunters explain how to read the angle of the sun, the direction of the currents, and the subtle movements of the seaweed—a navigational system so baffling to young Kunuk that he silently questions how they will ever find their way home.

After several hours spent listening to the engine’s mechanical chug, Kunuk hears a chorus of mumbling and chattering, grunts and growls, a sign that they are close to the walruses. (That sound will later remind him of the cacophony in a busy bar). They shut down the motors and drift toward the ice. As the walruses lift their hefty heads, the hunters raise their rifles and aim.

Throughout the Arctic, the traditional walrus hunt happens today much like it has for thousands of years—in teams armed with knowledge about walrus behavior accumulated over generations. But times are changing, and it’s not just that the hunters now have global positioning systems, speedboats, and cell phones. A rapidly changing environment is also altering walrus behavior in ways scientists are struggling to understand. As Arctic sea ice melts at a worrisome rate—in 2015 reaching the smallest maximum extent ever recorded—walruses are behaving strangely in parts of their range. That includes gathering in unusually large numbers on land.

Normally, females and calves prefer to haul out on sea ice instead of on land with the males. But as the ice disappears, the beaches are filling up. In September 2014, 35,000 Pacific walruses piled together near the village of Point Lay, Alaska, making international headlines for a record-setting heap of jostling tusks and whiskers on American soil. In October 2010, 120,000 walruses—perhaps half the world’s population—crowded onto one Russian haul-out site.


Round Island is one of the four main terrestrial haul-out sites for male walruses in Alaska. They gather here in the spring when the sea ice recedes and as many as 14,000 walruses have been counted on a single day.

For their part, scientists are racing to gather information about walruses, including attempts to get the first accurate head count amidst increased shipping traffic, proposed oil drilling, and other disturbances in key walrus habitat. A 2017 deadline for a decision by the United States government on whether to list walruses under the Endangered Species Act is fueling a new sense of urgency. A major goal is to explain changing walrus behaviors and understand what, if any, protections they might require. But there is another unanswered question that is just as critical, if less quantifiable: What do new walrus behaviors mean for indigenous people who have long depended on the animals?

Though related, these questions represent a clash between two contradictory ways of seeing the natural world. There’s science, which respects numbers and data above all else. And then there’s traditional knowledge, which instead prioritizes relationships between people and animals. In the Inuit view, walruses have a sense of personhood and agency, says Erica Hill, an anthropologist at the University of Alaska Southeast in Juneau. They act and react. As Kunuk points out, animal populations—caribou, fish, seals, and walruses—have always cycled. Unlike the scientists, the Inuit feel it’s best not to talk about how many come by each year. The animals might overhear, feel disrespected, and choose to stay away.

“If we talk about the walrus too much, they’re going to change,” says Kunuk. “If we were farmers we would count our stock. But we’re hunters and these are wild animals.”

Because scientists and hunters use wholly different systems to process knowledge, merging what they know is like trying to read a book in a foreign, if slightly familiar, language. Still, both worldviews share a deep caring for the animals, suggesting that a true understanding of the walrus may come only by allowing each perspective to teach the other. To accurately interpret emerging science, perhaps researchers must incorporate a much deeper history, one embedded in native traditions.

Walruses—and the people who have long relied on them—have, after all, been dealing with hunters, climate variations, and other obstacles for centuries. And Inuit hunters know that walruses have repeatedly adapted to change with more resilience than several decades of scientific data can detect. Within that intricate relationship may lie important lessons for maintaining a delicate balance between species that have coexisted in a harsh and unpredictable environment for millennia. This often-overlooked complexity adds a twist to the standard narrative surrounding Arctic creatures—that environmental change leads to certain catastrophe. It might not be so simple.

“We’re really good in the science world at seeing how things can go wrong, like ‘Gee, walruses need ice and the ice is going away, so whoops, we have a problem,’” says anthropologist Henry Huntington, who has been interviewing native hunters to complement a walrus satellite-tagging study by the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. “We know that ice is getting thinner in the summer, and it is easy to draw a straight line and extrapolate and say that at the end of this line is doom and gloom for the walrus population. What we’re not good at anticipating is what adjustments walruses can make. Walrus hunters are able to put that in perspective.”


Walruses rest on floating rafts of sea ice throughout the Arctic. Changes in the extent of sea ice cover is leading to changes in walrus behavior.

On that first expedition some three decades ago, young Kunuk watched and filmed as the hunters shot and butchered walruses, then wrapped parcels of meat in walrus skin. When they returned to Igloolik, he kept filming as the men dug pits for the meat in the gravel beach. After fermenting for several months, the aged meat, called igunaq, takes on the consistency of blue cheese and smells like a week-old carcass, Kunuk says. Yet once acquired, a taste for this valuable delicacy is a lifelong love, and, along with fresh, boiled walrus meat, is coveted.

For a 700-kilogram polar bear, calorie-dense walrus is also fair game and, in the emerging quagmire of changing Arctic dynamics, this is the crux. As Arctic ice melts, polar bears are spending more time on land where they’re smelling hard-won igunaq, digging up the meat, and occasionally wandering into Igloolik or other villages. A generation ago, Kunuk’s father told him that one bear a year might come into the village. But between August 2012 and January 2013, over 30 bears were seen on Igloolik Island, including in and around Igloolik village.

Along the coasts of Alaska and Russia, another temptation lures polar bears closer to villages: extra-large gatherings of live walruses that are, like the bears, increasingly driven to shore, largely because of the lack of sea ice. Walruses are notoriously skittish and often stampede when spooked by something like a bear. In a stampede’s wake, they leave trampled animals, sometimes thousands of them. It’s like a free buffet for hungry bears.

Escalating conflicts between walruses, polar bears, and humans have prompted a new era of adaptation by indigenous communities, often with scientists supporting their efforts. In Igloolik and nearby Hall Beach, hunters are testing electric fences as deterrents to protect igunaq. Sometimes the bears get over or under the fences, but several years into the project, they have learned to avoid the live wires, which deliver a harmless but effective jolt. And communities are losing less of their valuable meat, especially when they’re vigilant about checking the fences, says Marcus Dyck, a polar bear biologist with the government of Nunavut. “I’ve seen polar bears move a thousand pounds of rocks to get at walrus meat. If a bear is determined, there’s nothing that can stop [it],” he says. “Surprisingly, electricity from the fences really spooks the shit out of them.”


In some parts of Nunavut, electric fences are being tested as polar bear deterrents. This fence near Igloolik protects a cache of igunaq.

On the Pacific side of the Arctic, efforts to manage the walrus situation began in 2006 after a polar bear killed a teenage girl in the Russian village of Riyrkaipiy. Along with a growing sense that more polar bears were hanging around on land, the concerned villagers took charge by restricting disturbances at haul-out sites and creating umky (polar bear) patrols to chase bears away with flares, pots and pans, and rubber bullets. Their work was so effective that at least seven communities now have active polar-bear patrol teams that keep watch along the northern coastline of Russia. In Alaska, communities are managing walrus stampedes in terrestrial haul-out sites—and thus deterring bears—by minimizing noise and other human-caused disturbances. Low-flying planes are diverted, film crews turned away, and hunting is avoided in an attempt to keep the herds calm.

The people who live among walruses, in other words, are adapting to new realities. But what about the walruses? What do the numbers show?

Before the onset of industrial European walrus hunting in the 19th century, it is estimated that hundreds of thousands of walruses swam freely throughout the Arctic. But the animals became so valued for their oil, meat, skin, and ivory that by the 1950s the population had fallen as low as 50,000. After a recovery that peaked in the 1980s, when there seemed to be more walruses than the environment could support, numbers declined again. Today, the best available data suggests that there may be as many as 25,000 Atlantic walruses and some 200,000 Pacific walruses.


Walruses have been hunted by indigenous populations for generations, but the large-scale commercial exploitation of the animals—primarily for blubber and tusks—caused populations to reach an all-time low in the 1950s. Restrictions have since seen populations rebound.

But nobody knows for sure. Walruses spend a lot of time underwater, diving for shellfish on the seafloor. And they tend to clump within an enormous range that is both inaccessible and inhospitable to people, which means that extrapolating the size of an entire population by surveying a fraction of the environment can lead to wild miscalculations. The last attempt to make an aerial count of Pacific walruses, in 2006, came up with an estimate of 129,000 individuals, but error margins were huge. The possible range was between 55,000 and 507,000.

“They’re the gypsies of the sea and they’re a very challenging species to study,” says Rebecca Taylor, a research statistician with the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Alaska Science Center in Anchorage. “If you find walruses, you often find a lot of walruses. But you can go a long time at sea without finding any walruses. The logistics of getting out there and observing them are very challenging.”

Among the variety of scientific endeavors aiming to learn, once and for all, how walruses are faring, researchers at the USGS are tagging animals to track their movements and using statistical analyses to understand population trends. They are studying biopsies and DNA sequences to try and get the first accurate count of Pacific walruses. Results, as they emerge, will help focus conservation efforts where they’re needed most.

Still, many questions remain unanswered. “We can definitively say they’ve altered their behavior in an unprecedented way,” says USGS wildlife biologist Anthony Fischbach. “We can report that they have a different energy budget, that they’re spending less time resting and more time in the water burning calories. And that leads us to think that is not a good thing. But integrating that into what it’s going to be like in the future, whether they will do fine or not, that is an open question. There is more science to do.”

There may also be more history to unearth before researchers can blend that science with the trove of indigenous knowledge. For at least 2,000 years, people have relied on walrus for food for themselves and their dogs, Hill says. Her research also shows that native communities have long built their villages near haul-out sites that have remained in the same areas for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. But while hauling out on land appears to be normal behavior for walruses, it’s the staggering size of recent gatherings that is cause for concern. This new behavior suggests that the places walruses gather are limited. With less sea ice for walruses to rest on, Hill suspects that the beaches are only going to become more overcrowded. “It’s not a matter of walruses going someplace else to haul out,’” she says, adding that walruses return repeatedly to the same haul-out locations for generations. “Because they have specific requirements for their [haul-out sites], they can’t just move elsewhere. There is no other place.”

Further scrutiny of the deep past offers insight into how, for many indigenous communities, animals are woven into the fabric of life. Early hunters used walrus bones, teeth, tusks, and skin, for instance, to fashion sled runners, ornaments, and sails. Scapulae became shovel blades, penis bones became harpoon sockets, intestines were stretched into skylights, and skulls formed the structural foundation of walls for homes. In Iñupiaq, a language spoken in northern Alaska, 15 words exist to describe a walrus’s position relative to a fishing boat, including samna, “that one on the southern side.” Walruses are also ingrained in Inuit religion. “There is an idea people still talk about today,” says archaeologist Sean Desjardins of McGill University in Montreal, “that the Northern Lights are actually spirits playing a ball game with a walrus head.”

Merging these cultural tales with the stories that scientists piece together offers a chance to fully assess the walrus’s condition. Modern walrus research is wide-ranging geographically, but reaches back just 40 years, while indigenous hunters have longer-term knowledge that is more locally focused, says Jim MacCracken, a wildlife biologist in Anchorage. Together, these understandings build a fuller picture that goes beyond the usual story told to the public. “Environmental groups are quick to latch on to [dramatic stories of changing walrus behavior] and with 2014’s big haul outs, they were the ones pretty much making a big story out of it, telling people that walruses are in serious trouble and have no place to go but to shore,” MacCracken says. “These one- or two-minute reports on TV tend to sensationalize these events with ‘the world is coming to an end’ sorts of stuff. They can’t get into all the complexity of what’s going on there.”

Reaching across time and culture has other benefits, too. If studies show that walruses are in trouble, saving them is going to require that scientists and hunters listen to one another. “Nobody likes it if you come in and say, ‘I studied your problem and here’s what you need to do,’” Huntington says. “Ultimately, if some kind of management action is needed, we need everyone working together.”

For his part, Kunuk continues to join the hunt each year. Today, he is also an established filmmaker who directed and produced the award-winning 2001 film Atanarjuat: The Fast Runner. Much of his work aims to preserve his culture in the midst of rapid change. In, “Aiviaq (Walrus Hunt),” an episode of the television series Nunavut (Our Land), Kunuk tells the fictional story of a priest who arrived in Igloolik in 1946. Through the eyes of this outsider, viewers watch weathered, red-cheeked Inuit drink steaming tea and discuss the wind before piling into a boat. At the hunting site, some passengers cover their ears when a rifle fires. Soon, the hunters are chewing on raw meat as they slice through blubber, then bundle meat for igunaq. A more recent educational film called “Angirattut (Coming Home),” features an elder explaining the walrus hunt as it happens.

“When your son asks you how to butcher walrus, we have to know,” Kunuk says. “It’s part of our culture. It’s just our way, the way we live. It’s part of the routine. I hope it goes on forever.”

We work to ensure that the Pacific walrus in Alaska continues to be a healthy, functioning component of the Bering and Chukchi Seas ecosystems. Management responsibilities include:

international cooperation with Russia on walrus management issues,
conducting population surveys, monitoring and modeling populations,
monitoring harvest by Alaska Natives,
developing habitat protection measures such as regulations to minimize incidental take for industrial operations in walrus habitat, and
collaborative management and research programs at the local, state, national, and international levels.
The Marine Mammals Management office takes an ecosystem approach to walrus management, carried out through the cooperative efforts of many partners. Some of these are the National Wildlife Refuges, the Eskimo Walrus Commission, Alaska Department of Fish and Game, National Marine Fisheries Service, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Alaska SeaLife Center, World Wildlife Fund, Wildlife Conservation Society, and the University of Alaska.

Walrus are an Important Subsistence Resource
Pacific walruses are an important subsistence and cultural resource to many Alaska and Russian Native cultures. Walruses make up an important part of the diet of many coastal Alaska Natives. Tusks, bones, and hides are used to make authentic Native Alaskan handicrafts, as well as many of the items necessary to continue a subsistence lifestyle. For example, walrus hides are occasionally used for covers for wooden boat frames and tusks were traditionally used for harpoon points, fish hooks, and knives.
The Marine Mammals Management office works closely with Tribal governments and Alaska Native Organizations such as the Eskimo Walrus and Qayassiq Walrus Commissions  to co-manage the Pacific walrus population and ensure that it remains a functioning component of the arctic ecosystem and a sustainable subsistence resource.

Species Description
Walruses belong to the family Odobenidae - a group of marine carnivores that was composed of many species in the late Miocene and early Pliocene periods. Today, the family Odobenidae is represented by a single species Odobenus rosmarus of which two subspecies are recognized: the Atlantic walrus (O. r. rosmarus) and the Pacific walrus (O. r. divergens). The two subspecies occur in geographically isolated populations. Several populations of Atlantic walrus occur in Canada, Greenland, Scandinavia, and eastern Russia while the Pacific walrus is represented by a single stock of animals which inhabits the Bering and Chukchi seas.
Pacific walruses are one of the largest pinnipeds. The head in both sexes is characterized by a pair of enlarged upper canine teeth that project downward as tusks, small eyes, a lack of external ears, dorsally situated nostrils, and a square-shaped snout with hundreds of stiff whiskers. The head and body are covered with short, tawny hair but the flippers are bare. Walruses are dark when they are young and become progressively lighter with age. Immersion in cold water causes a restriction of blood flow to the skin and a pale, almost white appearance. When warming out of the water ("hauled out"), the skin again becomes perfused with blood and a pink to red color results.

Distribution and Migration
The Pacific walrus mainly inhabits the shallow continental shelf waters of the Bering and Chukchi seas. Several hundred can also be found in the Laptev Sea.  The distribution of Pacific walruses varies markedly with the seasons. Almost the entire population occupies the pack ice in the Bering Sea in the winter months. Through the winter they generally congregate in three areas, immediately southwest of St. Lawrence Island, south of Nunivak Island, and in the Gulf of Anadyr in Russia. As the Bering Sea pack ice begins to break up and melt in spring walruses begin to move northward and their distribution becomes less clumped. By late April walruses can be found from Bristol Bay northward to the Bering Strait. During the summer months, as the pack ice continues to recede northward, most of the population migrates into the Chukchi Sea. The largest concentrations are found near the coasts between 700 N latitude and Pt. Barrow in the east, and between the Bering Strait and Wrangel Island in the west. Concentrations, mainly of males, are also found on and near terrestrial haulouts in the Bering Sea in Bristol Bay and the northern Gulf of Anadyr throughout the summer. In October the pack ice begins to develop in the Chukchi Sea, and large herds begin to move southward. Many come ashore on haulouts on the Russian side of the Bering Strait region. Depending on ice conditions, those haulout sites continue to be occupied through November and into December, but with the continuing development of ice, most walruses move south of St. Lawrence Island and the Chukchi Peninsula by early to mid-December.


Although capable of diving deeper, Pacific walruses for the most part are found in waters 300 ft. deep or less, possibly because of higher productivity of their benthic foods in the shallower water. Feeding areas typically are composed of sediments of soft, fine sands; compacted sediments apparently inhibit foraging. In some instances, walruses forage among rocky substrates. They use their sensitive whiskers (known as vibrissae) to locate prey items in the sediments of the sea floor. With head down and vibrissae in contact with the bottom, the walrus proceeds forward, propelling itself with their hind flippers. Then they use their nose, jets of water and suction to dislodge their prey from the sediments.

Clams are their most common food, however other invertebrates such snails, sea cucumbers, crabs, and segmented worms are frequently found in their stomachs. Prey are manipulated by the lips and grasped with the aid of roughly textured gums, rather than by the teeth. The soft parts of mollusks are removed from the shells by suction and the shells are then spit out. Occasionally, small mollusks less than 30 mm in diameter are swallowed whole, shell and all, but from the larger mollusks only the siphon or foot ordinarily is ingested. Invertebrates without shells are swallowed whole without chewing. Walruses occasionally consume fish. They are frequently reported to prey on small seals such as ringed and ribbon seals. The incidence of seal eating may vary with location and population status. The frequency of walrus stomachs containing seals generally is less than 10% but seems to have increased in recent years.

 

Ice floes are used for resting and giving birth, and walruses require pack ice that will support their weight and allow ready access to the water in which they feed. While walruses can break (with their heads) ice up to 8 inches thick, they require ice thicknesses of about 24 inches or more to support their weight. Ice that rises too high out of the water, such as multi-year floes, cannot be used by walruses. Generally walruses occupy first-year ice with natural openings such as leads and polynyas (persistently open water within the ice pack) and are not found in areas of extensive, solid ice. Thus, their concentrations in winter are along the edge of the ice pack or the edges of polynyas. In summer those associating with ice are found along the southern margin of the Chukchi Sea pack ice, moving farther into the pack in stormy seas. Floe size and topography appear to be important in the selection of ice haulout sites as well as proximity to prey.

 
Isolated sites such as islands, points, spits, and headlands are occupied most frequently. A wide variety of substrates apparently are suitable, but protection from strong winds and surf seems also to be important. Social factors, learned behavior, and proximity to prey probably influence the location of haulout sites but little is known about such factors.

In Alaska, major terrestrial haulouts are found in Bristol Bay at Cape Seniavin, Round Island, Cape Pierce, and Cape Newenham. Consistent seasonal occupation of specific haulouts by some individuals suggests at least some degree of site fidelity. Limited data from tagging and radio-tracking studies suggest that site fidelity may be interrupted by human disturbances. In response to recent declines in sea ice in late-summer in the Chukchi Sea over the last several years, new haulouts have formed along the Chukchi coast in August and September.  Several sites along the Russian coast are also used and walruses that summer in Alaskan waters have consistently used a barrier Island just north of Point Lay for the last several years.  Disturbances at these haulouts that are dominated by females and young animals can result in mortalities as smaller animals are trampled as the herd stampedes into the water.

At birth calves of both sexes weigh anywhere from 100 to 150 lbs and are approximately 4.5 feet in length. After the first few years of life, the growth rate of females declines rapidly until a maximum body size is reached by approximately 10 years of age. Adult females are generally smaller than males, with an average weight of about 1900 lbs and an average length of approximately 9 feet. Although females reach sexual maturity at approximately 4-5 years of age they do not reach their full reproductive potential until they are nine or ten years old.

Male walrus tend to grow faster and larger than females. After a secondary acceleration of growth, males reach a full adult body size at 15-16 years of age. The head of the male is larger and more block shaped; and the tusks are stouter, straighter, and more elliptical in cross section than those of females. The tusks are used in intra-specific threat displays and fighting that is most severe in the case of breeding males. Raised nodules on the skin of the neck and shoulders develop only in sexually mature males. Adult males average over 2,700 lbs in weight and 10.5 feet in length. Males tend to become fertile at 5-7 years of age but are likely unable to compete for mates until they reach full physical maturity at approximately 15 years of age.

Pacific walrus breed in the winter between December and March. After fertilization the ovum becomes a blastocyst and remains in a state of suspended development for 3-4 months. Implantation occurs in June or July and the fetus resumes development for approximately eleven months. Calves are usually born in late April or May.
The walrus has the lowest reproductive rate of any pinniped species. The delay in implantation of the embryo, and 11 month gestation period, results in a reproductive cycle of more than one year. A successful pregnancy lasts through the next breeding season which results in an interval between successive births to 2 years. Most pinnipeds mate within days or weeks of parturition. In contrast, walruses give birth several months after the breeding season and do not have a postpartum estrus. Furthermore, fertility appears to be reduced in the breeding season following the birth of a calf. The factors affecting the resumption of estrous cycles in walruses are unknown; however in some mammals estrus is suppressed during lactation by elevated levels of the pituitary hormone prolactin which is produced and maintained in response to the suckling stimulus. Walruses nurse calves for more than a year and ovulation may be suppressed until the calf is weaned.  Thus, females in good condition and at prime breeding ages may only produce a calf every 3 years.

In compensation for their low reproductive rate, walruses have relatively low rates of natural mortality. Walrus calves accompany their mother from birth and are not weaned for 2 years or more. The prolonged lactation period allows walrus calves to achieve an advanced developmental state prior to weaning, which ultimately leaves them well equipped to forage and escape predators.

Population Size
The size of the Pacific walrus population is unknown. The actual size of the pre-exploitation population is unknown, but has been estimated to have been between 200,000-250,000 animals. Cooperative aerial surveys by the U.S. and the former Soviet Union (now Russia) were initiated in 1975. The 1975 survey estimated the population size at 221,360. A second joint census, conducted in 1980, estimated population size at 246,360. Surveys conducted in 1985 and 1990 produced estimates of 234,020 and 201,039, respectively. Cooperative aerial surveys were suspended in 1995 due to budget limitations and unresolved methodological problems.  After much deliberation and testing, another aerial survey was conducted in 2006 incorporating advanced thermal imaging and telemetry technologies, resulting in an estimate of 129,000 animals with a confidence interval of 55,000-550,000. The estimates generated from these aerial surveys should be viewed as conservative minimum population estimates that are not useful for detecting population trends.

In 2012 a new approach to population estimation using the genetic fingerprint of individual walruses within a mark-recapture framework began testing.  Two aspects of the approach were successfully assessed in 2013; the genetic identification of individuals and the ability to collect an adequate sample.  Testing will continue through 2015 at which point the success of the method will be evaluated.   

The eyes are small and vision is not well developed in walruses. Tactile perception via the vibrissae is well developed and important in feeding. As in other pinnipeds, walrus have good directional hearing capability underwater. Sensitivity to airborne sounds is lower than to underwater sounds, but the degree of sensitivity loss is not clear.

Walruses often flee haulouts en masse in response to the sight, sound, and especially odors from humans and machines. The significance of such disturbance to individuals and to populations is not well known, due to great variation in the observed responses to disturbance and a lack of relevant data.

Walruses depend on hauling out to complete their molt and grow new hair, to whelp, to nurse young, and just to rest. At those times even temporary displacement from haulout areas may be detrimental to the population. There is some evidence of haulouts being completely abandoned as a result of prolonged disturbance but those cases must be assessed carefully because evidence also exists for changes in walrus distribution for reasons not fully understood.

Females with young are the most responsive to disturbances and the separation of females from their dependent young can be a serious problem. Orphaned calves, especially in the first year of nursing, probably starve. In the first few days of the calf's life, the mother vigorously maintains contact with the calf. However, as the calf grows older that behavior wanes increasing the potential for separation during disturbance.

Even temporary separations can be lethal, in that polar bears prey upon calves and take advantage of even brief separations from the normally attentive cow. Calves especially are vulnerable to disturbance on terrestrial haulouts. Large numbers of calves have been trampled to death during stampedes caused by human and natural disturbances at terrestrial haulouts. The potential for mortalities during stampedes appears to be less in the case of animals on the ice, as groups are generally smaller and can easily reach the water.
Walruses are preyed upon by polar bears, killer whales, and man. The magnitude of natural mortality is unknown but is assumed to be low, given the population's low productivity. Eskimo hunters from St. Lawrence Island have described walruses becoming emaciated after becoming entrapped in heavy ice. It is probable that in some instances those walruses starve to death but no documentation of such events exists. Rock slides are a hazard to walruses on terrestrial haulouts and occasionally result in mortality.  They have also tumbled down steep slopes and fallen off cliffs at some haulouts.

Serious injury and death can result from intra-specific interactions, mainly involving strikes with tusks and trampling. Skin lacerations and subcutaneous hemorrhages resulting from tusk strikes are common in both sexes and all age-classes. The most serious wounds are observed on males during the breeding season when they wound each other during vigorous fights in the water. Trampling can result in abortion, injury, and death during stampedes at crowded haulouts and has been observed at Wrangel Island in the Chukchi Sea, the Punuk Islands in the Bering Sea, and Icy Cape on the Alaskan coast.

This November marks the 50th anniversary of the release of The Beatles’ “I Am The Walrus.” Written primarily by John Lennon for the TV movie Magical Mystery Tour, “I Am The Walrus” features a cryptic Lennon lyric with a bizarre chorus, an innovative arrangement from producer George Martin that includes sprechgesang (don’t worry, I’ll define it in a moment), studio trickery from engineers Geoff Emerick and Ken Scott, and an excerpt from Shakespeare’s King Lear. All of this adds up to create The Beatles’ psychedelic masterpiece. Here are ten things you may not know about “I Am The Walrus.”

Lennon wrote the bulk of the song during several trips. During one trip, he heard the two-note pattern of a police siren passing by. The sound morphed into the opening notes of “I Am The Walrus.” They are even mimicked in the two-note motif in the verse (“Mis-ter ci-ty p’lice-man…”).

Quarry Bank High School
“He has too many of the wrong ambitions and his energy is too often misplaced.” That was a description of John Lennon written by the headmaster of Quarry Bank High School in 1956. Just ten years later, a student at Quarry Bank wrote Lennon to tell him that they were analyzing Beatles lyrics in class. Lennon decided to give the students (along with music critics) something a little more difficult to analyze. So, he turned an old playground nursery rhyme that he sang as a child (“yellow matter custard/green slop pie/all mixed together with a dead dog’s eye”) into the line “yellow matter custard dripping from a dead dog’s eye.”

The Mysterious Eggman
The title of the song was based on the poem “The Walrus and The Carpenter” by one of Lennon’s favorite authors, Lewis Carroll. It wasn’t until later that John realized that the walrus was the bad guy in the poem! There is no “egg man” in the poem, although Humpty Dumpty does make an appearance in Through the Looking Glass. Surprisingly, Eric Burdon, lead singer of The Animals, stepped forward to claim that he was the egg man referenced by Lennon. Burdon was known as “Eggs” to his friends, due to his strange habit of breaking eggs over women.


The Beatles Were Crying
At the end of each verse, Lennon sings “I’m crying.” The Beatles had been doing a lot of crying around this time since their manager Brian Epstein had recently died. In fact, “I Am The Walrus” was the first song The Beatles recorded after Epstein’s death four days earlier. “I’m crying” could also be an allusion to one of The Beatles’ favorite singers Smokey Robinson who had sung the same phrase in the 1965 song “Oooh, Baby Baby”.

A Vocal from the Moon
Lennon, one of rock’s best vocalists, was always frustrated by the sound of his voice. For “I Am The Walrus,” he asked engineer Geoff Emerick to make his voice sound like it was coming from the moon. As always, Emerick turned Lennon’s strange request into the perfect effect. Violating EMI’s strict rules, Emerick had Lennon record his vocals using a low-fidelity talkback microphone (typically used by an engineer in the control room to “talk back” to musicians in the recording studio). This helped create one of rock music’s first distorted lead vocals.

The Human Click Track
The recording of “I Am The Walrus” was incredibly complex, ultimately taking 25 takes to complete. On one of the earlier takes, Lennon was playing an electronic keyboard called a Hofner Pianet (some sources say it was a Wurlitzer electric piano) and was making a lot of mistakes. Ringo was having trouble keeping a steady tempo — understandable, considering the song was long with a slow tempo. On top of all this, emotions were high due to Epstein’s recent death. George Martin was getting frustrated and his temper was beginning to show. McCartney jumped into action and saved the day by playing tambourine next to Ringo, acting as a human click track to keep Ringo in sync with Lennon’s keyboard.

What the Hell Am I Supposed To Do With This?
When Lennon first performed “I Am The Walrus” for George Martin, he asked Martin for the producer’s opinion. “Well, John, to be honest, I have only one question,” Martin said. “What the hell do you expect me to do with that?!?” Luckily, the always inventive Martin came up with an innovative orchestral arrangement that fit the song perfectly. It features eight violins and four cellos, three French horns, and a contrabass clarinet — a rare member of the clarinet family that was a favorite of Frank Zappa. In fact, Zappa loved “I Am The Walrus,” and played it often in his concerts.

Stick It Up Your Jumper
Martin’s arrangement didn’t stop with the orchestral instruments. He clearly felt that Lennon’s song needed something more. So, he hired the Mike Sammes singers, known for their work on Disney films and TV themes. Rather than create a standard vocal arrangement, Martin took advantage of the singers’ excellent score reading skills and created a sprechgesang arrangement. Sprechgesang, which means “spoken singing”, is a vocal technique halfway between singing and speaking. In his score to “I Am The Walrus,” Martin had the Mike Sammes singers make whooping sounds, laugh, snort, and shout phrases like “Oompah, oompah, stick it up your jumper!” Nothing like this had ever been heard on a popular music recording.
Thou Hast Slain Me
At the end of the very complicated mixing sessions for “I Am The Walrus”, Lennon had an idea that made Martin roll his eyes — mixing a live radio broadcast into the recording. It took some engineering work from Geoff Emerick (plus some paperwork to get permission from his bosses at EMI) to patch an AM radio into the console. During the mix, Ringo manned the radio while John instructed him when to turn the knobs. Coincidentally, Ringo stumbled on the BBC production of Shakespeare’s The Tragedy of King Lear. The broadcast was at the point of Act IV, Scene VI, where the steward “Oswald” is killed.

Walruses in White Satin?
Many artists have claimed that they were part of a Beatles recording even though no proof exists. A few years ago, Ray Thomas of the Moody Blues claimed that he and Mike Pinder sang backing vocals on “I Am The Walrus.” This claim is not backed up by any other source. (Thomas also claimed that it was his idea to put harmonicas on “The Fool on the Hill” and that an adventure with a groupie inspired McCartney to write “She Came In Through the Bathroom Window.”)

Who IS the “Walrus?”
When John wrote and recorded “I Am The Walrus,” it was weeks before he donned the costume for the famous sequence in Magical Mystery Tour. Mysteriously, the soundtrack album included a comment below the song listing: “’No, you’re not!’ said Little Nicola.” John confused things even more when he sang, “The walrus was Paul” in the White Album song “Glass Onion.”

Some conspiracy theorists claimed that the walrus was a symbol of death in Greek and Eskimo mythology. The fact that this was blatantly false didn’t matter. It was one of the clues (along with the King Lear death scene) that helped to create the “Paul Is Dead” myth.

Eventually, Paul had the last laugh when he wore a walrus mask for the video to George Harrison’s 1988 song “When We Was Fab.” Finally, he was the walrus.
The bigger the name, the weirder the theory.

Paul McCartney became a household name when he rose to prominence as part of the Beatles in the 1960s, and his star power has held steady ever since the band broke up in 1970. But some conspiracy theorists believe that the Paul we know and love today is not Paul at all, but “Faul,” or a faux Paul McCartney.

According to a longstanding theory, the real Paul McCartney isn’t the septuagenarian still tearing up stages – he actually died in the early hours of November 9th, 1966, after his car skidded off an icy road and crashed into a pole.

Conspiracy theorists claim that John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr worried about how his death might impact the Beatles’ huge commercial success, so they covered up his death by replacing him with a lookalike named Billy Shears, who looked, acted and even sounded the part.

Extreme theorists have pointed to discrepancies in older photos of Paul and more recent photos, claiming that details like chin shape or the placement of his ears are dead giveaways. “Faul’s” head size and shape are also supposedly different from McCartney’s. Some theorists even go as far as to say Shears was an orphan who had once won a McCartney lookalike competition.

And so, the story goes, the Beatles were able to continue on with their hit-making career undisturbed, their big secret well hidden from the world.

But, according to McCartney truthers, Lennon, Harrison and Starr began to feel guilty about their cover-up, so they began leaving clues that hinted at McCartney’s untimely death via their album covers and even in their songs themselves.

The cover for Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, released in 1967, is supposedly a big clue, with theorists asserting that the image of a whole cadre of the band’s heroes is not just a gathering, but a funeral. They point to the freshly dug earth in the foreground, the younger Beatles all dressed in black, and a patch of yellow flowers prominently displayed in the front — could it be a nod to the left-handed bassist?

Fans who believed in the theory started looking for hints in the band’s songs as well, and found quite a few eerie coincidences.

Perhaps one of the best-known is their 1968 track “Revolution #9,” which, if played backward, has one part that sounds a lot like a violent car crash and a voice that can be made out to be saying, “He hit a pole! Better get him to see a surgeon.”

The supposed audio clues didn’t stop there. Play “I’m So Tired” backwards, and you get a recorded phrase that sounds kind of like, “Paul is dead, miss him, miss him.” Slow down “Strawberry Fields Forever” and you can hear John saying, “I buried Paul.” (In interviews, however, Lennon has explained that the phrase was actually “cranberry sauce.”)

Then there’s the famous cover for Abbey Road, in which all four bandmates are crossing the street toward their studio. At first glance, the image looks harmless. Conspiracy theorists, however, are convinced that the album is a huge confirmation that McCartney is, in fact, dead.

In the picture, John is wearing all white, just like a priest; Ringo’s all dressed in black like a pallbearer; and George is bringing up the rear in a blue-jean getup, the gravedigger of the group.

And Paul? The supposedly deceased Beatle walks shoeless across the road, theorists say, because he’s dead.

Yet another example that theorists point to is the significance of the black walrus that appears on the cover of their 1967 album Magical Mystery Tour. According to these theorists, the black walrus symbolizes death in certain Scandinavian cultures, and McCartney was undoubtedly in that animal costume.

And in a truly bizarre coincidence – or was it? – on a later Beatles release, the White Album, Lennon sings on one track, “Glass Onion”: “Well here’s another clue for you all – the walrus was Paul!”

As for Paul – or is it “Faul”? – the rumors don’t really bother him. “To the people’s minds who prefer to think of them as rumors, then I’m not going to interfere,” he told Life magazine in 1969. “I’m not going to spoil their fantasy.” 

The 'Paul Is Dead' myth began in 1969, and alleged that Paul McCartney died in 1966. The Beatles are said to have covered up the death, despite inserting a series of clues into their songs and artwork.

The story goes that at 5am on Wednesday 9 November 1966, McCartney stormed out of a session for the Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album, got in to his Austin Healey car, and subsequently crashed and died.

Somewhat improbably, McCartney was said to have been replaced by a lookalike, called variously William Shears Campbell or William Sheppard. William Campbell allegedly became Billy Shears on Sgt Pepper, while William Sheppard was supposedly the inspiration behind The Continuing Story Of Bungalow Bill (actually an American named Richard Cooke III).

In fact, the crash never happened. Between 6 and 19 November 1966, McCartney and his girlfriend Jane Asher were on holiday, travelling through France and Kenya.

Life magazine with 'Paul is dead' coverHowever, a couple of relevant incidents did take place. On 26 December 1965 McCartney crashed his moped, resulting in a chipped tooth (seen in the videos for Paperback Writer and Rain) and a scar on his top lip, which he hid by growing a moustache.

Additionally, on 7 January 1967 McCartney's Mini Cooper was involved in an accident on the M1 motorway outside London, as a result of which it was written off. However, the car was being driven by a Moroccan student named Mohammed Hadjij, and McCartney was not present.
Hadjij was an assistant to London art gallery owner Robert Fraser. The pair turned up at McCartney's house on the evening of 7 January, and were later joined by Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Brian Jones and antiques dealer Christopher Gibbs.

The party decided to head to Jagger's home in Hertfordshire, before moving on to Redlands, Richards' Sussex mansion (and scene of his later drugs bust). McCartney travelled with Jagger in the latter's Mini Cooper, while Hadjij drove in McCartney's Mini.
The two cars became separated during the journey. Hadjij crashed McCartney's Mini and was hospitalised with injuries. The heavily customised car was highly recognisable, so rumours began circulating that McCartney had been killed in the incident.

The following month a paragraph appeared in the February 1967 edition of the Beatles Book Monthly magazine, headed "FALSE RUMOUR":

Stories about the Beatles are always flying around Fleet Street. The 7th January was very icy, with dangerous conditions on the M1 motorway, linking London with the Midlands, and towards the end of the day, a rumour swept London that Paul McCartney had been killed in a car crash on the M1. But, of course, there was absolutely no truth in it at all, as the Beatles' Press Officer found out when he telephoned Paul's St John's Wood home and was answered by Paul himself who had been at home all day with his black Mini Cooper safely locked up in the garage.

Although the magazine downplayed the incident, and claimed the car was in McCartney's possession

Belief that Paul McCartney may have died in the mid 1960s began in 1969. The first known print reference was in an article written by Tim Harper which appeared in the 17 September edition of the Times-Delphic, the newspaper of the Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa.

Harper later claimed that he wasn't the original source for any of the claims in his articles. He said he was writing for entertainment purposes only, and said he got the information from a fellow student, Dartanyan Brown. Mr Brown is said to have got the story from a musician who had heard it on the Californian west coast, and that he also read the story in an underground newspaper.

The rumours gained momentum on 12 October 1969, after an on-air phone call to radio presenter Russ Gibb, a DJ on WKNR-FM in Michigan. The caller, identified only as 'Tom', claimed that McCartney was dead, and instructed Gibb to play Revolution 9 backwards, where the repeated "number nine" phrase was heard as "turn me on, dead man".

Listening to the show was Fred LaBour, an arts reviewer for student newspaper The Michigan Daily. LaBour used clues from Gibb's programme along with others he had invented himself – including the name of William Campbell, the alleged replacement for McCartney.

I made the guy up. It was originally going to be Glenn Campbell, with two Ns, and then I said 'that's too close, nobody'll buy that'. So I made it William Campbell.
Fred LaBour
The Michigan Daily published it on 14 October, under the title McCartney Dead; New Evidence Brought To Light. Although clearly intended as a joke, it had an impact far wider than the writer and his editor expected.

Shortly afterwards, Russ Gibb co-produced a one-hour special called The Beatle Plot, giving the rumour greater prominence; by then it was well on its way to become a national, then international, talking point, inspiring fans to pore over their albums for further clues.

A British version of the rumour is believed to have existed prior to the American one, with fewer details. The sources are unknown, but the notion of McCartney dying in a road accident appears to have originated there.

The Beatles' responses
Although The Beatles and their press office at Apple were initially bewildered and somewhat annoyed by the story's refusal to die away, there is evidence that the group members themselves found it amusing.

Paul McCartney travelled to his Scottish farm on 22 October, and Peter Brown called him to ask for a statement that could be given to the press. McCartney gave a line borrowed from Mark Twain: "Rumours of my death have been greatly exaggerated."

The statement did little to quell the intrigue, and Apple continued to be bombarded with calls from reporters. WKNR's Russ Gibb spoke to Derek Taylor, and to someone else who claimed to be McCartney but was in fact Tony Bramwell. The station's John Small also spoke to John Lennon, who sounded bewildered and amused by the story: "What did we do, stuff him and shave him? How could we do it? I don't understand what it's all about."

A reporter from New York's WMCA, Alex Bennett, arrived in London on 22 October. The following day he interviewed Ringo Starr, Derek Taylor, Neil Aspinall, photographer Iain Macmillan, McCartney's tailor and barber, and members of Apple group White Trash. Starr told the Bennett: "If people are gonna believe it, they're gonna believe it. I can only say it's not true."

On 24 October McCartney agreed to speak to the BBC's Chris Drake. The interview took place at McCartney's High Park Farm in Campbeltown, Scotland.

McCartney suggested that the stories had begun as he had adopted a lower public profile recently. He said that he once did "an interview a week" to keep in the headlines, but since getting married and becoming a father he preferred to live a more private life.

He was firm in denying he had died, saying: "If the conclusion you reach is that I'm dead, then you're wrong, because I'm alive and living in Scotland." Linda McCartney said their holiday was being ruined by the press speculation, adding that "everybody knows he's alive".

Talk then turned to the subject of McCartney's farm, which he admitted was scruffy. He said he had been dubbed "the new Laird" when he first met his Scottish neighbours, but didn't want to be considered the "squire of the district". He concluded the interview by saying that The Beatles had no plans to reconvene in the near future, having recently completed an album and film, and that he may not return to London until 1970.

A one-minute extract from Chris Drake's interview was broadcast on BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend on 26 October from 1pm. A longer recording lasting 3'30" was included on The World At One the following day, and 3'20" was included on Late Night Extra on Radio 2 from 10pm later that night.

In an edition of Life magazine dated 7 November 1969, McCartney reassured fans that "Rumours of my death have been greatly exaggerated," paraphrasing Mark Twain. "However," he continued, "if I was dead, I'm sure I'd be the last to know."

The magazine's cover featured Paul and Linda with their children, in a picture taken on their Scottish farm. The cover featured the words "The case of the 'missing' Beatle – Paul is still with us". Shortly after the issue went on sale the rumours started to decline.

In his revealing Rolling Stone interview in 1970, John Lennon was asked about the death story. He responded in a typically forthright fashion:

I don't know where that started, that was barmy. I don't know, you know as much about it as me... No, that was bullshit, the whole thing was made up. We never went for anything like that. We put tit-tit-tit in Girl. It would be things like a beat missing or something like that, see if anyone noticed – I know we used to have a few things, but nothing that could be interpreted like that.
Lennon referred to the myth in 1971's How Do You Sleep?, his vitriolic attack on McCartney from the Imagine album. The song contains the lines: "Those freaks was right when they said you was dead, the one mistake you made was in your head".

McCartney parodied the rumours with the title and cover or his 1993 album Paul Is Live. The artwork was based on the Abbey Road cover photograph; instead of the 28IF number plate, a car shows 51 IS instead. To reinforce the cycle of life, he is pictured being dragged across the famous zebra crossing by one of the offspring of his sheepdog Martha.

The Beatles were said to have been referred to the death a number of times in song.

The list below is just a taster. Particularly in the case of Revolution 9, there have been a huge number of interpretations, hidden meanings and fanciful explanations, many of which deserve to remain in the minds of the beholders. In short, any mention of death or cars in Beatles songs (Eleanor Rigby and Good Morning Good Morning proved particularly fruitful) can be shoehorned into the myth.

The opening words of Got To Get You Into My Life: "I was alone, I took a ride, I didn't know what I would find there".
The line "He didn't notice that the lights had changed" from A Day in the Life.
The opening line of She's Leaving Home, which highlighted the moment of the accident: "Wednesday morning at 5 o'clock as the day begins".
The suppression of the story in the news found its way into Lady Madonna: "Wednesday morning papers didn't come".
At the end of Strawberry Fields Forever, Lennon can be heard muttering "cranberry sauce". This was misheard as "I buried Paul".
"Bury my body" and "Oh untimely death" appeared in the radio feed towards the end of I Am The Walrus, taken from a BBC production of King Lear.
At the end of I'm So Tired, John Lennon mutters "Monsieur, monsieur, monsieur, how about another one?" When played backwards, this was interpreted by some as "Paul is dead, man, miss him, miss him".
"I'm sorry that I doubted you, I was so unfair/You were in a car crash and you lost your hair" – from Ringo's Don't Pass Me By.
The line "Find me in my field of grass" in Mother Nature's Son was taken as a reference to a cemetery.
There is the sound of a car crash, followed by an explosion, in Revolution 9.
The same song, when played backwards, is said to contain the repeated phrase "Turn me on, dead man".
"And so I quit the police department", a line from She Came In Through The Bathroom Window, supposedly referred to William Campbell's alleged former career in Ontario, Canada (see the Sgt Pepper visual clues on the next page).
A number of visual clues were also said to be found in the group's record releases.

The front cover spells the word 'Beatles' in flowers. Some, however, took this to say 'Be at Leso', a reference to the Greek island the group were considering buying (actually called Leslo).
An arrangement of yellow flowers below this is of a left-handed bass guitar, the instrument most associated with Paul McCartney. Some saw the flowers as spelling out the name 'Paul'.
A toy Aston Martin car sits atop the rag doll on the right hand side of the cover.
If a mirror is placed horizontally across the middle of the Sgt Pepper bass drum, so it bisects the words 'Lonely hearts', the phrase "I ONE IX HE DIE" can be seen. This was taken to mean "11 9 HE DIE", a reference to the supposed date of death, 9 November. Another interpretation of this is that "1 ONE 1" represents the three other Beatles, and the X represents the dead McCartney. A diamond symbol between HE and DIE points upwards to McCartney.
The album cover shows an open hand above McCartney's head, which in some religions is a symbol of death, signifying that someone will die or has recently died.
At the bottom of the image is a statue of the Hindu god Shiva, the destroyer. His hand is pointing directly at McCartney.
The gatefold sleeve shows McCartney wearing a badge on his arm appearing to say OPD. This actually said OPP, and stood for Ontario Provincial Police, though some people took it to mean "officially pronounced dead".
Original pressings of the album had the lyrics of the songs along with a photo of The Beatles. In the photo George Harrison's thumb points to the line "Wednesday morning at five o'clock," the alleged time of Paul's death.
On the rear cover McCartney has his back to the camera, suggesting that he is hiding his identity. Turning one's back is said to be a symbol of death in certain cultures.

The original Magical Mystery Tour double EP (and LP in the US) was released with a booklet. This contained a number of cartoons, song lyrics and photos from the film.


The front cover spelt the word 'Beatles' in stars. Held up to a mirror, this reveals a telephone number, 2317438, said to have belonged to a London mortuary.
A number of photos in the booklet show McCartney without shoes, said to signify death: people tend to be buried without them.
McCartney is shown in military uniform in one picture, behind a desk on which sits a sign saying "I was".
Ringo's drum head, in a still from the I Am The Walrus sequence, appears to say "Love the 3 Beatles". Next to the kit are McCartney's boots (as on Abbey Road, he is barefoot), covered in what appear to be blood stains.
A still from the Your Mother Should Know sequence shows all four Beatles in white suits, dancing. McCartney is the only one to have a black carnation in his lapel; the others all have red ones.
A cartoon of Paul labelled 'The Fool on the Hill' shows him with a crack in his head.


The cover of Abbey Road is said to make reference to a funeral procession, with John Lennon dressed all in white as a priest; Ringo Starr in a black suit as an undertaker; McCartney being barefoot, as many corpses would have been buried; and George Harrison following as a gravedigger. McCartney was also out of step with the others, with his eyes closed.
In the same picture, McCartney is holding a cigarette with his right hand. However, it was well known that he was left-handed, suggesting that an impostor was in his place.
A Volkswagen Beetle car in the background has the numberplate LMW 28IF. LMW was taken to mean 'Linda McCartney weeps', and 28IF was interpreted as referring to Paul's age if he had lived. However, at the time of Abbey Road's release in 1969 he would have been 27, rather than 28.

This month marks the 50th anniversary of the release of Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, which means it also marks the golden jubilee of the infamous “Paul is dead” conspiracy theory. This was the popular urban legend that Beatle Paul McCartney had been killed in a 1966 car crash and replaced with an impostor by record executives.

It’s obviously wrong, of course. In a world where Milli Vanilli could barely keep their lip synching scam going for more than a few months, it seems that somebody would have spoken up by now about the time British record executives railroaded a random civilian into committing global identity fraud.

But regardless, the Paul is dead theory remains an excellent example of how a group of dedicated conspiracists can gather surprisingly compelling evidence for a theory — even if that theory is still utterly and completely ridiculous.

In a world swimming with pop culture rumours and internet hoaxes, this was one of the first to go viral. Below, the National Post presents your multimedia guide to the “clues” of the Paul is dead theory.

The “burial”

This is a famously busy album cover, so it’s also a rich source of conspiracy leads. There’s an open palm over McCartney’s head, which fans interpreted as being akin to a priest blessing the dead Beatle before internment. While the other three Beatles are carrying brass instruments, McCartney is carrying a cor anglais, a black woodwind instrument. In the corner, next to a doll wearing a “Welcome the Rolling Stones” jumper, is a reddish driving glove symbolizing McCartney’s bloody crash death. A bass guitar made out of flowers in the foreground only has three strings, allegedly symbolizing a dead McCartney as the “missing” string. Hold a mirror over “lonely hearts” in the drum logo and it appears to use numbers and Roman numerals to spell out 11/9 HE DIE — an alleged reference to McCartney’s dying on November 9, 1966. And finally, the whole scene depicts McCartney’s burial. In truth, the album is supposed to depict a burial, but a metaphorical one. The Beatles wanted a psychedelic way to communicate to fans that their mop-topped collarless suit days were over, and that the world should instead prepare for a quartet of sophisticated studio musicians who may or may not enjoy dressing in Edwardian military regalia.

The “funeral procession”

Although it has since become a rock icon, the cover for Abbey Road remains a triumph of lazy album artwork. The Beatles simply walked out of the studio in whatever they were wearing and posed on an adjacent crosswalk. McCartney, notably, didn’t even bother to put shoes on. But fans interpreted the four as representing a funeral procession of sorts: A gravedigger, a corpse, an undertaker and a priest. According to theorists, McCartney’s shoelessness was a nod to the practice of interring corpses without shoes. However, a persistent problem with Paul is dead evidence is that theorists kept referring to symbols for death that don’t really seem to exist. So it is with the shoeless theory; it’s not actually a practice to bury otherwise well-dressed corpses without shoes. “I was walking barefoot because it was a hot day,” is how McCartney explained it. Also, in the background, a Volkswagen Beetle that just happened to carry the license plate “28IF,” interpreted as being a message that McCartney would have been 28 years old in the photo if he had lived. 

“I buried Paul”
 

This is a clip of audio from the end of Strawberry Fields Forever in which the distorted voice of John Lennon can be heard saying something. Lennon claims he was saying “cranberry sauce,” the Beatles’ press officer claimed he was saying “I’m very bored” and conspiracy theorists thought he was saying “I buried Paul.”

The walrus

There are two things to note about Magical Mystery Tour. Firstly, there’s the word “Beatles” spelled out in stars. When viewed upside down the stars appear to spell out a phone number: 231-7438. Rumour had it that this was some kind of special Paul is dead hotline. Call it in Toronto, however, and you’ll be connected to Caruk Homes Ltd., a custom homes contractor that has little to no information about celebrity death conspiracies. Secondly, fans surmised that McCartney was in a black walrus suit because certain Arctic cultures see the walrus as a symbol of death. The immediate problem with this concept is that the Beatle in the walrus costume is not McCartney: it’s Lennon. And, like the barefoot thing above, there’s slim evidence that any Arctic peoples actually see the walrus as a symbol of death. Canada’s Inuit, for one, feature walruses in their mythology and spirituality, but generally only treat the animal as an explicit harbinger of death if an angry one happens to be coming at them.

The impostor and the corpse

The bare bones cover of the White Album left even the most devoted theorist stumped for clues, so fans instead turned to the foldout collage poster included with the album. A snapshot of what appears to be McCartney in glasses and a civil servant’s haircut was theorized to be William Campbell, the winner of a McCartney lookalike contest who was then recruited to be the impostor. The second is allegedly a picture of McCartney’s corpse being washed prior to an autopsy. Morgue attendants will indeed wash bodies prior to an autopsy, but they definitely don’t give them full-immersion bubble baths — particularly if the corpse is badly mangled from an auto crash.

“Paul is a dead man”
Randomly interjecting during recording sessions was a favourite habit of Lennon. At the end of the White Album song I’m So Tired, Lennon fades out the track with a few seconds of gibberish. Play it backwards and it does indeed sound like Lennon is saying “Paul is a dead man, miss him, miss him, miss him.” One of the reasons that alleged secret messages were able to gain such traction with fans is because the Beatles actually did have a penchant to put secret messages in their albums. But rather than communicating a morbid coverup, they were usually just trying to slip naughty things past the censors. The 1965 song Girl, for instance, features the Beatles saying “tit” over and over again in the background. And on early pressings of Sgt. Pepper, the album ended with a dog whistle designed to annoy any canine within earshot of the stereo.

The “butcher cover”

 

Above are the two album covers for Yesterday and Today, a compilation album released for the North American market. On the right is the cover that the Beatles wanted to use; an extremely abstract concept image intended to symbolize the fact that the Beatles remained flesh and blood despite their fame. On the left is the photo that ultimately ended up on the album when horrified record executives kiboshed the butcher cover. For conspiracy theorists, the butcher cover’s symbolism was easy: It depicted the carnage of McCartney’s grisly death. But they even had an explanation for the mild cover. McCartney is seated inside a steamer trunk symbolizing the fact that the “real” McCartney was also in a box six feet underground.

The Canadian connection

Ontarians will immediately recognize the patch on McCartney’s left arm in this sleeve art from Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band. It is the shoulder patch of the Ontario Provincial Police, and found its way into McCartney’s possession during a tour through Canada. Given the angle of the photo, however, theorists took it that the patch read “OPD,” an alleged abbreviation for “officially pronounced dead.” Once again, there is little evidence that British hospitals ever used the acronym OPD to refer to a deceased patient. Today, any internet search for the medical term “officially pronounced dead” leads exclusively to pages discussing the Paul is dead theory.

The odd one out

This is the reverse of Sgt. Pepper, showing McCartney inexplicably facing his back to the camera — an apparent sign that his death had set him apart from the three surviving Beatles. As an organization, the Beatles generally seemed quite annoyed with the death conspiracy, as was McCartney himself. “It is all bloody stupid,” McCartney told a LIFE magazine reporter in 1970 who had hiked to his remote Scottish farm by way of a bog. He added, “the people who are making up these rumours should look to themselves a little more.” John Lennon, by contrast, seemed to delight in the legend, which he mentioned in no less than two songs. In the Beatles’ Glass Onion, he says “here’s another clue for you all; the walrus was Paul.” And after the Beatles’ breakup, he composed a hate song against McCartney containing the verse “those freaks was right when they said you was dead.”