Max Fischer is a precocious and eccentric 15-year-old attending the prestigious boy's school Rushmore Academy. Max is the president, and in some cases founder, of numerous extracurricular clubs and organizations within the school, and is infinitely more devoted to these activities than he is to his regular schoolwork, eventually causing him to be placed on "sudden death academic probation" by Rushmore's headmaster Dr. Guggenheim. Despite the warning that one more failed class will result in expulsion, Max is determined to stay at Rushmore for as long as possible.

Max's widowed father Bert is a blue-collar barber and a wise, loving father to Max, his only child. Max's mother Eloise died of cancer when Max was seven. The contrast of Max's middle-class background with the wealthy and privileged lives of most Rushmore students feeds Max's determination to make a name for himself. Max is a scholarship student, accepted to Rushmore on the strength of a one-act play he had written in second grade. During a chapel assembly, Max is deeply impressed with a brief speech delivered by local industrialist Herman Blume, who seems to be addressing the non-wealthy underdogs like Max, reminding them that the rich kids "can't buy backbone." Though Blume, in reality, is a glum and disillusioned man despite his fortune, he is struck by Max's enthusiasm and confidence when the two meet after the assembly.

After finding an intriguing quote handwritten in the library book he is reading, Max attempts to track down the person responsible. The search leads him to Ms. Rosemary Cross, Rushmore's new first grade teacher. Max develops an instant crush on her, and he introduces himself one afternoon when the two are alone on the bleachers. Ms. Cross, while slightly startled by Max's forward nature, is impressed by his intellect, and they strike up a conversation, during which Ms. Cross expresses displeasure at the school's decision to cancel the Latin program. Max, despite having tried to get Latin cancelled for years, switches courses immediately in order to win Ms. Cross's favor, and circulates a school-wide petition to keep Latin in the curriculum before making a personal plea to the school executives. The effort not only restores Latin, but makes it a mandatory course. Ms. Cross and others, including Max's younger friend Dirk Calloway, are impressed by Max's tenacity, while other students, including the brash and aggressive Magnus Buchan, resent Max's ability to manipulate authority, seemingly on a whim, to the point where the entire school body is affected.

Max also finds a friend in Herman Blume, whose numbskulled and bratty twin sons Ronny and Donny are students at Rushmore. Max falsely tells Blume that his father is a neurosurgeon rather than a barber, still feeling the need to impress the successful industrialist. Max is soon a regular visitor at Blume's plant. Blume is amazed at Max's cocksure attitude and dedication to goals, while he himself is in a failing marriage and a downward spiral.

Max continues to pursue Ms. Cross, visiting her classroom after school. He learns that her late husband was a former Rushmore student, which directly influenced her decision to teach there after his death the previous year. Seeing that Ms. Cross has an interest in marine life, due to the fish tanks in her classroom and the library book by Jacques Cousteau they had both read, Max approaches Blume for $35,000 to build an aquarium at Rushmore. Though Max had not told anyone else, including Dr. Guggenheim, about the project, Blume indulges him with a check for $2500.

Ms. Cross soon becomes concerned about Max's clear feelings for her, and attempts to make it clear that a romantic relationship will never happen between them. Max,though disappointed, appears to get the message.However, when Max's next play has its opening night at Rushmore, he is openly annoyed to see that Ms. Cross brought along a male friend, Dr. Peter Flynn, as a guest. Blume, also in attendance, is introduced to Ms. Cross, and the four of them go out to dinner. Blume notices Max's irritation at Dr. Flynn's presence, and unwisely buys Max alcohol, which worsens his behavior. Max insults Dr. Flynn for coming along uninvited, and he admits to Ms. Cross that he is in love with her.

A few days after the incident, Blume visits Ms. Cross at Rushmore to deliver an apology letter from Max, to whom she had not spoken to since. Blume develops an infatuation with Ms. Cross, and later tries to casually dissuade Max from continuing to pursue her. Max and Ms. Cross patch up their friendship nonetheless.

When Max finally attempts to break ground on the aquarium project, for which he had never sought the school's approval, he is officially expelled from Rushmore. Max is crushed, but changes neither his attitude nor habits when he begins attending a local public school, Grover Cleveland High. He continues to engage in and start up multiple extracurriculars, though the other students don't show interest. Classmate Margaret Yang attempts to befriend Max, only to be ignored.

Blume and Ms. Cross begin a secret relationship, which they take care to hide from Max, with whom they still spend time as a trio. Though Blume is married, he has long suspected his wife of infidelity, and feels something new and liberating with Ms. Cross.

Max still visits the Rushmore campus on occasion, feeling angry and lost about his expulsion from the main focus of his life. Magnus Buchan taunts Max, accusing him of only being friends with Dirk Calloway because of Dirk's beautiful mother. Max crassly tells Magnus that half the reason he was expelled was because he got a handjob from Mrs. Calloway in the back of her car. Magnus is unconvinced, but the rumor spreads, soon reaching Dirk, who becomes furious with Max. Dirk, aware of the secret relationship between Ms. Cross and Blume, ousts the affair to Max in hopes of hurting him.

Max loses all sense, and confronts Blume about the affair. Blume admits to being in love with Ms. Cross but that neither of them wished to hurt Max's feelings. Max is unmoved, and promptly rats Blume out to Mrs. Blume, who files for divorce, resulting in Blume taking up indefinite residence in a hotel. Max sneaks in, disguised as a waiter, and infests Blume's hotel suite with bees.

Knowing Max is responsible for telling his wife about the affair and for the bee incident, Blume runs over Max's bicycle with his car. Max, in turn, cuts Blume's brakes, for which Blume has Max arrested. After being bailed out by his father, Max attempts to get Ms. Cross fired from Rushmore by showing Dr. Guggenheim photos of her and Blume together, but finds out she had already resigned. Max visits her in her classroom as she is packing up, and she angrily asks him to leave. Max gives up the revenge game and his former tenacity drains away. He stops attending school and begins working in his father's barbershop.

Near Christmastime, Dirk stops by the barbershop to visit Max and make amends. He presents Max with a personalized Swiss Army Knife, commemorating his legacy at Rushmore. Dirk also brings the news that Dr. Guggenheim is in the hospital after suffering a stroke, and that Max should visit him. Max does so, and Dr. Guggenheim's rage towards Max results in him speaking for the first time since the stroke. Blume was visiting as well, and he and Max patch up their friendship. Blume, who is an outward mess, tells Max that Ms. Cross had ended the relationship. This news sparks Max's passion for extracurriculars again, and he goes back to Grover Cleveland High with renewed vigor. He finally accepts friendship from the kindhearted Margaret Yang, and casts her in his latest play.

Max makes an irrational final attempt to romance Ms. Cross by pretending to have been hit by a car and climbing through her bedroom window with fake blood on his face. She sees through the ruse, but answers his questions about why she broke up with Blume. Ms. Cross says she ended the relationship because Blume was married, self-loathing, and petty enough to destroy Max's bicycle. Max tells her Blume's theory: that Ms. Cross is still in love with her late husband, Edward Applebee. Max leaves through the window, finally accepting that he will never win Ms. Cross.

After apologizing to Dirk and Margaret Yang for his poor behavior, Max puts together a new play, partially inspired by the Vietnam War, of which Blume is a veteran. He casts Margaret, Dirk, and surprisingly Magnus, in leading roles alongside himself, and invites Ms. Cross and Blume to the premiere, assuring that they are seated beside each other. He also invited Dr. Peter Flynn as a means of atonement for past behavior. Max dedicates the play in part to "Edward Applebee-a friend of a friend." The play is a huge success, and Max, Blume, Ms. Cross, Margaret, and and incredibly proud Bert congregate at the party afterward.

Blume and Ms. Cross consider giving their relationship another try, while Max and Margaret Yang become closer. Blume asks Margaret for a dance, leaving Ms. Cross and Max alone. Max signals the DJ, who begins to play The Faces' "Ooh La La" as Max and Ms. Cross approach the dance floor together.

Royal and Etheline Tenenbaum are a wealthy couple living in New York City with their three children, all of whom are incredibly gifted in particular fields. Their older son Chas is a genius of finance and chemistry, their adopted daughter Margot is a recognized playwright, and younger son Richie is a tennis prodigy. Royal, a disbarred lawyer, loves his family but is often brash and insensitive to their needs. He and Etheline separate (though do not divorce) when the children are young, and Royal moves into an expensive hotel where he remains for 22 years, isolated from his family.

As adults, the three Tenenbaum children are wearied, tragic versions of their former selves. Chas is mourning the loss of his wife in a plane crash six months earlier, and is struggling with the duty of raising their two sons, Ari and Uzi, on his own. Margot is stoic and enigmatic, suffering from writer's block and enduring a listless marriage to the much-older neurologist Raleigh St. Clair. Richie retired from professional tennis after a mysterious emotional meltdown at a crucial match, and had been traveling the world on a cruise ship for a year. Etheline, mature and academic (in contrast to her estranged husband), works as an archaeologist. A chain of events is set in motion when Etheline's smitten accountant Henry Sherman proposes marriage to her. Etheline truly cares for Henry, but asks for time to think over her situation with Royal. Meanwhile, the family's longtime servant Pagoda reports the news to Royal, who resolves to win his family back.

Chas and his sons move back in with Etheline, as Chas has increasing paranoia about the boys' safety. After hearing this news, Margot returns home as well, craving a change from her odd married life (she spent most of the day locked in the bathroom, indulging in her secret vice of chain-smoking). Margot is also having an affair with Richie's best friend, novelist Eli Cash, although Eli knows that Richie is secretly in love with Margot, his own adopted sister.

Royal runs out of cash and is evicted from his hotel. Ashamed of facing his family with the truth, he resolves to win them back through fraud. He meets with Etheline and convinces her that he has terminal stomach cancer and wants to make amends with her and the children before his approaching death. She hesitantly agrees, but meanwhile accepts Henry Sherman's proposal. Chas is indignant over Royal's return, as he still mistrusts his father. Margot appears indifferent, while Richie is more sympathetic and loving. Royal rmoves into the family house with a large amount of medical equipment (borrowed from a hospital worker who "owed him a favor"). During his stay, he finally meets his grandsons and the three form a tight bond.

While Royal attempts to once again relate to his children, he becomes increasingly jealous of Henry Sherman. After a verbal altercation, Henry reveals to the family that Royal is faking his terminal illness (Royal eats greasy foods and swallows Tic Tacs from a prescription bottle). A furious Etheline sends a dejected Royal out of the house. He and Pagoda get a room at the YMCA and take jobs as elevator operators at the hotel Royal was evicted from.

Richie is still torn over his love for Margot, and is tormented when her husband Raleigh unveils his suspicions of her infidelity. They hire a private investigator, who uncovers many elements of her past that had been completely unknown: A nine-day marriage in Jamaica, her heavy smoking habit, her escape from boarding school, a lesbian affair in Paris, and numerous lovers in New York including Eli Cash. Raleigh is depressed by the news, but Richie is nearly destroyed. Locking himself in the bathroom, he shaves his head and his beard and slits his wrists. He is found in time for doctors to save him, but the incident shakes the family. Raleigh finally leaves Margot. Richie later escapes the hospital and returns home, finding Margot in his room listening to records. Margot is devastated that she caused Richie so much pain, and admits that she is in love with him as well.

Realizing that he only wants happiness for his family, Royal provides his wife with the divorce he had denied her for decades. On Etheline and Henry's wedding day, with family and guests crowding the house and street, Eli crashes his car into the side of the house while heavily dosed with Mescaline. He nearly hits Ari and Uzi, and kills their ever-present pet Beagle. A livid Chas chases Eli through the house, causing more damage and injuries, until they both collapse and admit they need help to move on with their lives.

The ceremony temporarily forgotten, the family and wedding party scatter around the house to remedy the damage. Royal buys a Dalmatian from the firefighters called to the scene, and presents it to Chas to replace the deceased Buckley. Chas makes up with his father, and Royal shows sympathy for his son's grief as a widower. Two days later, Etheline and Henry are finally married in judge's chambers.

Royal lives happily with his family, particularly with Chas, Ari, and Uzi. At age 68, Royal suffers a fatal heart attack. The family gathers at his funeral, reflecting on the recent past, as Royal is buried under a gravestone featuring a passage describing how he "saved his family from the wreckage of a sinking battleship."

Fifty-three year old Steve Zissou is a famed oceanographer and documentarian, this work which he does with his loyal crew known as Team Zissou. His career, however, has been going downhill, he not having had a hit movie in the last nine years, which is making him think his next film will be his last, something he has not confirmed publicly. He has just released part 1 of that film, "The Jaguar Shark". The title derived from an incident on what was his most ambitious expedition to date, where his professional partner and best friend of twenty-seven years, Esteban du Plantier, was eaten alive by a ten meter long creature, which Steve had never seen before, but what he refers to as a jaguar shark. Because only Steve saw the creature and what happened to Esteban, some question if the creature truly exists and if Steve is making up the story. Regardless, Steve plans as part 2 of the documentary finding and destroying the creature that killed his friend. Three people who have never sailed with Steve will be joining the Team on this expedition: Bill Ubell, his bond company's "stooge"; single, but pregnant reporter Jane Winslett-Richardson, whose presence is important if only because Steve does care what the world thinks about him, despite often doing unlikable things; and Ned Plimpton, who works as a pilot for a backwater airline, and who the two believe may be Steve's biological son from a previous relationship. Despite Ned acknowledging that he is not a strong swimmer, he accepts Steve's offer to be an official member of the Team, which does not sit well with Team engineer Klaus Daimler, who has always viewed himself as the son Steve never had. One Team member who will not be going along is Steve's wife, Eleanor Zissou, who Steve refers to as a "rich bitch", who was once married to Steve's arch oceanography nemesis Alistair Hennessey, and who Steve will admit off the record is the true brains behind the operation. She views this expedition as reckless. Steve being able to focus on the mission at hand takes some turns based on other hazards of the sea, and the interactions between Steve, Ned and Jane, which adds complexity to their confined environment.

An American businessman speeds through city streets of India in a taxi. He arrives at his train station, only to see the train, The Darjeeling Limited, pulling away. He frantically chases it, but eventually gives up and is overtaken by a younger man who manages to climb aboard.

The young man, Peter Whitman, is the second-oldest of three brothers who have not spoken in the year following their father's death in a car accident. The youngest, Jack, had been living in Europe and undergoing a rocky relationship with an ex-girlfriend. The eldest, Francis was severely injured in a recent motorcycle crash (eventually revealed to be a suicide attempt) and wears bandages on his face. Francis had summoned his brothers to reconcile and take a spiritual journey through India together. While the brothers initially act happy to see each other, their lack of trust is evident.

All three Whitmans dose heavily from Indian prescription pain medications throughout the film, though Francis uses his injuries as an excuse. The two younger brothers soon grow tired of Francis's overbearing and bossy demeanor, and Jack confides in Peter his plan to leave early and meet his ex-girlfriend in Italy. Peter reveals that his wife, Alice, is seven months pregnant, and he behaves anxiously when speaking of the situation.

Francis is annoyed that Peter has kept many of their deceased father's personal items (sunglasses, luggage, car keys, etc.). This pushes their distrust even further. Jack is still conflicted and stoically depressed about his ex-girlfriend. Francis and Peter share a brief moment of agreement, as neither of them approved of the girlfriend, and they attempt to help Jack move on. Jack, meanwhile, romances and befriends a beautiful stewardess named Rita.

Francis has planned the trip to an obnoxiously detailed level. His personal assistant Brendan occupies a different compartment of the train and prints out the schedules and itineraries that Francis provided. Their first stop is a beautiful temple, which the brothers enter after shopping at the nearby market (Jack buys a tear-gas gun and Peter buys a small cobra in a box). As they attempt to pray inside the temple, Peter becomes annoyed with Francis and moves to a different altar. Jack, whom Peter had sworn to secrecy, tells Francis about Peter's upcoming child. Returning to the train, the three brothers finally talk openly together and Peter admits that he never planned to have children because he never expected his marriage to last; not because he does not love his wife, but because of his low self-esteem. They re-board the Darjeeling Limited and continue their journey.

The next morning, the brothers awaken and learn with horror that Peter's cobra had escaped its box. They cannot find it in the compartment and run screaming into the hallway, leaving the head steward to capture it. The snake is confiscated and the brothers are forbidden to leave their compartment for the rest of the train ride.

Sharing the small compartment, the brothers' tempers begin to escalate. Francis chastises Peter for taking their father's possessions, and Peter, enraged, throws a belt at Francis, drawing blood. The two begin to brawl, until Jack ends the fight by spraying his brothers with tear-gas. They abandon their room during the ruckus, and the head steward kicks them off at the next stop.

The brothers walk with their luggage down a rural road next to a river. They spot three boys ahead, crossing the stream on a rickety pulley-raft. The current swells, the raft capsizes, and the boys fall in. The Whitman brothers immediately spring into action, jumping into the water and attempting to save the boys. Francis and Jack haul two of the children to safety, but the third is torn from Peter's grasp by the current and is taken over a small waterfall. As Francis and Jack rush to them, Peter emerges from the river, bloodied and extremely shaken, with the lifeless boy in his arms. Devastated by the child's death, the Whitmans are lead to the nearby village by the two surviving boys. While the boy's family and village elders frantically tend to the body, Francis, Peter, and Jack are given clean clothes and food. The two boys had explained that the Whitmans had saved their lives, and that Peter had done everything he could to save the third child. The Whitmans prepare to leave by bus the next day, but, to their surprise, they are invited to stay for the boy's funeral.

As the funeral takes place, a flashback shows the three brothers the year before, on the day of their father's funeral. They, along with Peter's wife Alice, are en route to the funeral when Peter demands that they stop at the mechanic's and pick up their father's car, which was under repair. After much bickering and making themselves late for the funeral, they find that the car is still not working, and that their estranged mother will not be attending the funeral as promised. However, the brothers band together in their grief for the moment, reveling in the fact that they are all in the same situation for once.

The Whitmans decide to end their spiritual quest, and prepare to board a plane home. As they wait for their flight, Peter calls his wife on a payphone and reveals to his brothers that she found out that their child is a boy. Francis and Jack congratulate their brother, and Francis offers his $6,000 belt (a prop passed back and forth throughout the film) as an inheritance gift for his nephew. The brothers veto their trip home, and resolve to visit their mother, who is now a nun near the Himalayas.

Upon their arrival at the convent, they are greeted by their mother, Patricia. She warns them that the area is dangerous due to a man-eating tiger that is loose nearby. As they settle in for the night, the brothers confront their mother and ask her why she did not appear at their father's funeral. She says she simply did not want to go, and that she was needed at the convent. Peter tells her about her upcoming grandchild, and they plan to continue their talk in the morning.

When the brothers awaken, they realize their mother had left the convent in the night (which, they are told, she often does). Realizing they will never be able to truly trust her, they begin to trust each other instead. They arrive at the station to catch a train, having decided to return home to America. The train pulls away as they arrive, and they chase after it, dropping their father's suitcases at they run and leaving the past behind. They board the train and happily head for home, as brothers once more.

"Boggis and Bunce and Bean One short, one fat, one lean. These horrible crooks, so different in looks, were nonetheless equally mean." Mr. Fox and his wife Felicity Fox sneak into a henhouse to steal chickens. They're caught in a cage on the way out because Mr. Fox sees the trap and can't resist the temptation to spring it. As they hear someone coming, Mrs. Fox reveals that she's pregnant and makes Mr. Fox promise that if they get away, he'll give up raiding farms.

Cut to a few years later: the Foxes evidently escaped and now live underground with their slightly odd son, Ash. Mr. Fox is working a safe job as a journalist. Against the advice of Badger, his attorney, he moves his family into a larger and finer home inside a tree on a hill. The treehouse has a good view of the nearby farms of Boggis, Bunce, and Bean.

Ash is immediately hostile when his cousin Kristofferson joins the family for an extended visit because his father is sick. He makes the inoffensive Kristofferson sleep under a table in the bedroom they share. Ash feels threatened because his cousin appears to be good at everything. Kristofferson even succeeds at whackbat, a cricket-like game whose baroque rules are explained by Coach Skip -- though Kristofferson has never played it before. Meanwhile, Mr. Fox plots with Kiley, the treehouse's caretaker, to raid the Boggis, Bunce and Bean farms. They take Kristofferson but not Ash along on the raids, which deepens Ash's resentment. Mr. Fox is careful to conceal these outings from Felicity, who nevertheless becomes suspicious when unexplained food appears in their larder. She warns Fox, "if what I think is happening is happening -- it better not be."

The success of the raids leads the three angry farmers to set up a stakeout at the treehouse, where they shoot off Fox's tail before the animals run back inside. The farmers try to dig them out, but the Foxes dig faster. Eventually they find their way into the sewers, where they join forces with many other animals made homeless by the farmers' destruction of their hill. These neighbors are none too pleased with Fox for bringing this revenge down on them all.

Mr. Fox, though penitent, is irrepressible; he marshals the animals, calling them by their Latin names and noting each one's special talent. He organizes a tunneling project to burrow under all three farms and make away with all of Boggis's chickens, all of Bunce's ducks and geese, and all of Bean's turkeys, apples, and cider. Ash and Kristofferson's relationship, meanwhile, has begun to thaw after Kristofferson defends his cousin from a bully. The two cousins slip away from the celebration that follows the megaraid; they aim to get Fox's tail back from Bean. However, the closest they get to the tail is seeing it on TV -- Bean is wearing it as a necktie. Worse, Mrs. Bean catches Kristofferson, and Bean plans to use him to catch Mr. Fox.

When they find that their goods have been stolen, the farmers decide to flood the animals' tunnel network by pumping it full of cider. The animals are forced to retreat into the sewers, and Fox learns that the farmers plan to use Kristofferson as bait to lure him into an ambush. They are soon confronted by Rat, Bean's security guard. After a struggle with Fox that leaves him mortally wounded, Rat divulges that Kristofferson is being held in an attic on Bean's farm.

Fox sends a message to the farmers, asking for a meeting in a town near the sewer hub. Fox offers to surrender in exchange for Kristofferson's freedom. The farmers set up an ambush, but Fox and the others anticipate it and launch a counterattack. Fox, Ash, and Kylie escape the scene in the town and slip into Bean's farm. A much matured Ash frees Kristofferson and impresses his father and the gang by braving enemy fire to release a rabid beagle that keeps the farmers at bay while the group escapes back to the sewers. On the way, they see a dark wolf on the hillside above the road. Fox has said he's afraid of wolves, but he stops and tries to speak to this one in English and French. It doesn't respond until Fox raises his fist in a gesture of solidarity. The wolf returns the gesture and departs into the woods.

By this time Ash and Kristofferson have settled their differences and become good friends, sharing meditation and other activities. Though the animals are still trapped in the sewers, Fox leads them to a drain in the floor of a large supermarket, which unbeknownst to them is owned by the three farmers. Celebrating their abundant new food source and the news that Felicity is pregnant again, the animals dance in the aisles.


In the summer of 1965, Walt and Laura Bishop live on the New England island of New Penzance with their three young sons and troubled 12-year-old Suzy, who is secretive, solitary, and prone to fits of aggression. The island is nervously awaiting a violent storm, due to hit in a few days' time.

On the other side of the island, Troop 55 of the Khaki Scouts is spending the summer at Camp Ivanhoe, under the leadership of Scoutmaster Randy Ward. It is noticed that the most unpopular scout, 12-year-old Sam Shakusky, has fled camp during the night, leaving Ward a letter of resignation from the Scouts and stealing a canoe and supplies. Ward sends the remaining scouts (and the camp dog, Snoopy) out to hunt for Sam, and the boys speak of him with a mixture of hostility and fear, as he is believed to be emotionally disturbed and possibly dangerous.

Unbeknownst to anyone but themselves, Sam and Suzy had been pen pals for months after meeting backstage during a production of "Noye's Fludde" at St. Jack's Church on the island of St. Jack Wood, a neighboring island. Sam was drawn to Suzy's frank and rebellious personality, while Suzy was charmed by Sam's bold yet casual manner. Over the next year, they develop a plan to reunite in the summer and run away together. When the chosen date approaches, Sam escapes camp and Suzy slips out of her house with her binoculars, her cat, six library books, and her brother's record player. They meet in a field and begin their journey.

Scoutmaster Ward notifies Police Captain Sharp of Sam's absence, and Sharp makes a call to what he assumes is Sam's home. It is revealed that Sam is an orphan (which was not listed in Ward's camp records), and that his foster parents are refusing to take him back, due to a long history of strange and sometimes dangerous behavior displayed by Sam. Sharp and Ward are saddened that their only option is to turn Sam over to Social Services once they find him.

Meanwhile, Suzy's parents discover she is missing, and discover her plan from a shoebox full of letters she received from Sam. Working with Captain Sharp (with whom Laura Bishop is having an affair), they combine their knowledge of the two kids and begin to track them.

Meanwhile Suzy and Sam hike through the woods, stopping sporadically for food and conversation. Suzy explains that she wanted to leave home because both she and her family were frustrated with her moods and behavior. Sam has had trouble making friends because of his oddness and shameless independence, and had a turbulent experience with his foster family before going to Camp Ivanhoe. They are finally discovered by the boys of Troop 55, who have all brought weapons. They attempt to attack and capture Sam, but there is a brief skirmish in which Suzy stabs one of the more aggressive scouts with her lucky left-handed scissors, and the camp dog, Snoopy, is accidentally shot through the neck with an arrow. The scouts flee the woods and report back to Sharp, Ward, and Suzy's parents to inform them of the pair's whereabouts. The injured scout is taken for medical treatment, and Suzy's father expresses his rage and frustration at Scoutmaster Ward, blaming him for letting one of "these beige lunatics" run away with his daughter. A veteran resident of the island who had been Sam's former teacher interrupts the ruckus and suggests that they search a cove at the other side of the island, as Sam had expressed an interest in retracing a Native American migration route there.

Suzy and Sam set up camp at the cove in question, and bond more while swimming, dancing on the beach, and having their first kiss. Sam makes a pair of earrings for Suzy out of green beetles and fish hooks, which Suzy happily accepts, even allowing Sam to jab the hooks through her un-pierced earlobes. They talk more throughout the evening. Sam paints a picture of Suzy, and Suzy reads aloud from one of her books. They fall asleep content, but are awoken the next morning by Captain Sharp, Scoutmaster Ward, Suzy's parents, and Troop 55, who finally tracked them down.

Sam and Suzy are forcibly separated. Back home, Suzy treats her family with stoic hostility, as they have forbidden her from seeing Sam again. Sam is given a letter from his foster family, making it clear that he cannot return to live with them. Now homeless, Sam is temporarily taken in by Captain Sharp, who develops a bond with the intelligent young outsider. Sharp and Ward, who are sympathetic to Sam's situation, reluctantly speak to a representative of Social Services, who informs them that due to Sam's history of troubling behavior, he will have to be placed in "juvenile refuge" and possibly undergo shock therapy.

Back at Camp Ivanhoe, Troop 55 has a collective change of heart, and the scouts feel guilty for their poor treatment of Sam. Now knowing the sad details of Sam's past and his decidedly bleak future, they decide it is their duty to rescue him. They gather supplies and escape camp, sneaking to Suzy's house to reunite her with Sam. They flee to Captain Sharp's home, an enthusiastic Suzy in tow, having left a homemade dummy in her bed as a decoy. They rescue Sam, who finally begins to trust his former enemies and is overjoyed to see Suzy again.

The next step of the plan is to make the trip to the Khaki Scouts Hullaballoo at Fort Lebanon, staffed by Cousin Ben, an older relative of a member of Troop 55. Sam and Suzy explain their situation to Cousin Ben, and that they are in love. Cousin Ben, having quasi-official authority to do so, offers to preside over an impromptu wedding for the pair (which will have no legal standing, but would be of emotional significance). The "newlyweds" then board a sailboat and are about to make their escape with further help from Cousin Ben, but Suzy realizes she left her binoculars behind. Sam rushes back to get them, but is confronted by the scout whom Suzy had previously stabbed, who is recovering in the infirmary. The vengeful scout taunts Sam with Suzy's binoculars. Sam finally cracks and attacks the scout, who promptly rats out the fugitive Troop 55. Troop 55, Sam, and Suzy are chased off Hullaballoo premises as the predicted massive storm begins to brew overhead. Sam is struck by lightning during the chase, but recovers instantly.

Back at Fort Lebanon, Scoutmaster Ward has arrived in search of his missing troop. The high-ranking Commander Pierce, in charge of the Hullaballoo, is outraged by Ward's supposed incompetence and strips him of his title. The camp prepares to evacuate to higher ground, as the storm is now in full swing. Before they can do so, the flood hits. Ward springs into action and rescues Commander Pierce, who was trapped in his headquarters at the time, and carrying Pierce on his back, shuttles everyone out of camp.

Back on the island of St. Jack Wood, Troop 55, Ward, Pierce, Captain Sharp, Suzy's parents, and the Social Services representative (who had arrived that morning to collect Sam, who by then was again missing) crowd into St. Jack's Church, which is the designated storm shelter. Sam and Suzy are present, but hiding near the steeple. After much squabbling from the adults over the welfare of the children and Sam's future, Sam and Suzy are spotted and quickly escape to the roof.

Horrified, Captain Sharp scrambles for a solution. He knows Sam and Suzy are only being elusive because they expect to be separated again once they are found. He asks Social Services if Sam could be allowed to stay with him on the island, so as to be near Suzy, but the representative initially refuses because Sharp is not married. However, Suzy's parents, both lawyers, assure that there is no legal reason that should prevent the arrangement. Frantic, Sharp climbs to the roof, where Sam and Suzy are huddled by the steeple in pouring rain and raging wind. They are preparing to jump into the flood below, but Sharp pleads with Sam to consider the offer of a new home on the island. Sam consents, but before the three can climb down to safety, the steeple is struck by lightning and severed, leaving Sharp, Sam, and Suzy dangling precariously over the raging waters. Miraculously, they survive by hanging on to each other from the church eaves.

Some time later, Suzy is safe at home again. Sam makes daily visits to her house, though it is unclear whether Suzy's parents permit this, since Sam enters and leaves through an upstairs window. He lives happily with Captain Sharp, who is grooming him to be a future member of island police. Things at Camp Ivanhoe are looking up. Scoutmaster Ward has his job back, is in a relationship with the pretty switchboard operator from the post office, and is welcoming new recruits into Troop 55.

The film closes with a close-up of a painting Sam has done of the cove where he and Suzy stayed during their adventure. While they camped there, they decided they did not like the name of the island and planned to think up a new one. We do not see the name they chose until Sam's painting reveals it: Moonrise Kingdom, spelled out with rocks on the beach of the cove.

A young woman walks into a cemetery in the Republic of Zubrowka, a place said to have fallen on hard times. She passes a bench with three men singing and then approaches a memorial with several hotel keys attached to it, dedicated to a man known only as Author. The woman puts a key on the memorial and then takes out a book titled "The Grand Budapest Hotel".

1985 - We meet the Author in his home as his grandson runs around firing his toy gun. The Author addresses the audience and begins to tell the story behind his book as it was told to him in a very unexpected way.

1968 - In his youth, the Author travels to Zubrowka, a place that has been devastated by war. He ventures up to The Grand Budapest Hotel, which was once well-renowned. It sees very few guests apart from the Author, and several unnamed patrons.

One day while chatting with concierge M. Jean, they happen to see an old man sitting in the lobby by himself, looking rather sad and lonely. When The Author asks who he is, Jean informs him that the old man is Zero Moustafa, the owner of the hotel. It is widely-known that Mr Moustafa has procured many other fine lodgings throughout the world, but Jean surprises The Author, when he explains that in The Grand Budapest, he occupies a small servant's quarters.

However, their conversation is interrupted when a man in the lobby begins choking. As Jean rushes to help him, The Author returns to his room, via elevator. As the days go on, curiosity about Moustafa continues to haunt The Author, until they chance to meet in the hotel's bath.

Moustafa invites the Author to dine with him that evening. When they meet again, Zero begins to tell his story.

Part 1 - M. Gustave

1932 - Zero starts off his story in his teenage years. We first see Zero assisting other members of the Grand Budapest Hotel, at the beck and call of the legendary concierge, M. Gustave H., as they prepare a meal for the concierge, and an elderly woman known as Madame D..

During the meal, the old woman tells how she is frightened to leave the hotel, afraid she'll never see Gustave again. The man keeps assuring her that she's worrying over nothing.

Before her car pulls away, she requests that the concierge light a candle for her, before the say "I love you," and she is driven back to her home.

It was then that Zero was "formally" introduced to Gustave. Originally wishing to just send him off to light the candle as Madame D has wished, Gustave soon questions the young man's employ. Soon finding out he's there on a 'trial basis,' Gustave initiates an impromptu interview with Zero. Despite what Zero begins telling him, Gustave determines that the boy has no hotel experience, education, or family. When asked why he would want to be a lobby boy, Zero replies, "Who wouldn't, at the Grand Budapest Hotel?" Gustave is pleased with this answer. Zero asks him if he was ever a lobby boy. Gustave merely replies, "What do you think?"

With Gustave acting as his mentor, Zero works at the hotel just as quickly and efficiently as everybody else. He never misses any detail to ensure the guests are perfectly pleased with their visit, taking all the tips Gustave gives him, to heart.

As for just who owns The Grand Budapest, the identity of the hotel's owner is a mystery, but it is well-known that the owner sends an emissary, Deputy Kovacs to the hotel to check up on business. Zero also learns that many of the hotel's most special guests would come for Gustave. It became well-known that the man would sleep with a number of elderly blonde women with insecurities and a need for attention.

During this time, Zero would come to meet the love of his life, Agatha, a baker with a distinctive birthmark on her cheek who works at Mendl's, Gustave's favorite pastry shop. However, though Old Zero makes a small mention of her, he quickly moves on to other matters in his story.

Part 2 - Madame C.V.D.u.T

While fetching newspapers one morning, an article catches Zero's eye. He rushes back to the hotel to show Gustave, that Madame D. has been found dead in her bathroom. A shocked Gustave immediately takes Zero on a train where they travel to Madame D.'s estate.

On the train, they stop by a barley field on a day that is known as the "Closing of the Frontier". Gustave and Zero see soldiers standing in the field. A group of soldiers enter and ask to see the documents of both men. Gustave shows his papers, but Zero has none as he is an immigrant. The main soldier orders Zero to come with him. Gustave defends Zero and gets into a fight with the soldiers. They pin the two of them against the wall, and Gustave, seeing Zero in trouble, barks at the soldiers, "TAKE YOUR HANDS OFF MY LOBBY BOY!"

The fracas soon catches the attention of Inspector Henckels, who enters the car, and quickly recognizes Gustave! When Gustave hears the names of Henckel's parents, he quickly remembers who they were, as well as Henckel's childhood name of "Little Albert". Henckels gives Zero a pardon for the trip, but urges him to get official papers immediately.

Gustave and Zero soon after, arrive at Madame D.'s mansion. Her maid, Clotilde, guides them to the old woman's body lying in a casket. Gustave speaks to her corpse, praising her as if she were still alive.

Eventually, Clotilde tells Gustave that the butler, M. Serge X, wishes to speak to him. However, Serge is frantic and panicky, and quickly rushes off, with Gustave and Zero in pursuit.

They soon find themselves in the trophy room of the house, where all manner of relations to Madame D are present for the reading of her will. Surprising to both Gustave and Zero, is Mr Kovacs, who is the executor of her estate, and who has analyzed her will, and its numerous amendments.

Key among the inheritors mentioned, are her son Dmitri and his three sisters, Marguerite, Laetizia, and Carolina. There are also small provisions for other members of the family, but Kovacs claims that a new amendment was sent to his offices just recently. Reading it aloud, the amendment (which is still being investigated), thanks Gustave for his kindness, and allows him ownership of cherished painting, titled "Boy With Apple."

When Gustave steps forward, Dmitri angrily confronts him, hurling several homophobic slurs, and refusing him the painting. A small war of words causes a small scuffle among Dmitri, Gustave, Zero, and Dmitri's right-hand man, J.G. Jopling.

Gustave then takes Zero to the room where "Boy With Apple" is hanging. After admiring it for a little while, the two take it down, and replace it (with a rather vulgar painting). Gustave then has Serge wrap up "Boy With Apple". Unseen by anyone else, Serge tucks an envelope labeled "CONFIDENTIAL" into the rear of the painting, before it is wrapped in brown paper, and given to Gustave. Before Gustave and Zero leave, Gustave remembers that Serge had wanted to speak to him before about something, but the Frenchman does not say anything more.

On the train ride back, Gustave claims he will cherish the gift from Madame D, but quickly realizes that Dmitri may come looking for the painting. He proposes to Zero that they sell off "Boy With Apple" on the black market, and, in exchange for his services, Zero will be given 1.5% of the cut and Gustave will make him his heir. Zero agrees, and quickly jots down the concierge's declaration, to make it "official."

Once back at the hotel, the two hide "Boy With Apple" in the hotel's vault, before Henckels arrives, to arrest Gustave as the suspect murderer in Madame D's death. As Zero watches, Gustave attempts to run, but Henckels and his men give chase.

Part 3 - Check Point 19 - Criminal-Interment Camp

One week before his trial, Gustave is imprisoned. Going to visit him, Zero is shocked to find his senior has suffered injuries, but Gustave simply claims he had to prove himself to the others, once they questioned his virility.

Zero has also met with Mr Kovacs, who explains that a deposition was given by several members of Madame D's family, that Gustave had secretly entered the mansion, and poisoned Madame D with strychnine. However, the one who claimed to have seen the events unfold, Serge X, has gone missing.

Gustave is pretty sure that Madame's family forced Serge to bear false witness, and though Gustave has an alibi as to where he was at the time, he fears bringing the woman to whose company he was in (the Duchess of Westphalia) into the events, as it will ruin her reputation.

In the meantime, Dmitri has secretly begun his own search for the missing Serge, sending his henchman Jopling to check on Serge's sister, who claims she has not seen her brother recently.

Zero soon ends up acting as the middle-man for Gustave's correspondence with the staff of the Grand Budapest, reading them the concierge's letters, and his own prose poems. Gustave also requests that any issues should be addressed to Zero in his absence.

Back in the prison, Gustave has almost become a concierge to the inmates there, serving many of them mush with a cheery air. He has also shared the Mendl's pastries he receives, with several inmates: Pinky, Wolf, Gunther, and Ludwig. Gustave's hospitality towards the men pays off, and they want to help him break out of the prison. However, the amount of tools to break out of the prison are limited, but upon looking at the Mendl's box, Gustave hatches a cunning plan.

It is at this point where Old Zero becomes overwhelmed with emotions and he starts to cry. He explains to the Author that talking about Agatha makes him emotional. Old Zero then stops his main story, and gives some background on his and Agatha's relationship, of which even Gustave was privy to (though seemed to also flirt with, much to Zero's ire), even 'interviewing' the young woman to see if she was proper for his Lobby Boy.

Returning to the story, Zero worked with Agatha, to place specific tools, baked into several pastries sent to Gustave. This fashioning of them to look like baked goods fooled the prison guards, and allowed Gustave and his comrades the proper tools to attempt their escape.

In regards to Madame D's will, Kovacs is of the mind that something is missing from the paperwork, and that along with the disappearance of Serge, the executor asks Dmitri and his sisters to bring the local authorities to look into the matter...of which Dmitri quickly refuses to do so. Dmitri simply seems to want what he feels is owed him, while Kovacs is of the mind that he must follow the instructions his former client laid out, and proceed in an honest matter. This retort is met with Dmitri storming out of the room, and Jopling throwing Kovac's cat out the window to its death.

Later, Kovacs collects the cat's body and boards a trolley, but soon finds Jopling following him. Kovacs attempts to lose the bodyguard, by ducking into the Kunst Museum (after quickly disposing of his dead cat in a trash can). However, as he attempts to leave out a rear door, Jopling stops him, slamming the door, severing 4 of the man's fingers, before murdering him. Kovac's absence is felt the next day at The Grand Budapest, when a note is received from his office, telling that his usual visit has been cancelled.

As the time for Gustave's escape draws near, Zero tells Agatha about "Boy With Apple." Fearful that he and Gustave might be caught, he gives her the necessary information to remove it from the hotel's vault (information which she reluctantly takes).

At the prison, Gustave and his fellow inmates begin to put their plan of escape into action. Aside from a noisy prisoner who sees them escape (who is quelled by an inmate whom Gustave gave mush to), the group finds their biggest obstacle in an underground hatch, which is occupied with several guards playing poker. Gunther sacrifices himself for the group, killing the guards, but dying in the process.

Finally, the remaining men reach the outside of the prison with Zero waiting for Gustave. Ludwig, Pinky, and Wolf part ways, overtaking a nearby bus. However, Gustave soon grows upset at Zero when he finds the lobby boy has not procured a safe house, spare clothes, or brought his favorite cologne. Gustave then angrily lashes out at the boy, criticizing his culture, before the boy shames the concierge, by telling how his family was killed, forcing him to retreat and look for work on his own. Gustave sincerely apologizes to Zero, before the escape sirens blare, and the two make a run for it.

In the aftermath of the escape Henckels and his men investigate the break out, but also find Jopling in their midst. Henckels also informs Jopling that Madame D's lawyer was found dead just recently. Jopling claims he was aware Mr Kovacs had gone missing, but claims he knew nothing of the man's death, before being escorted from the prison.

After traipsing across the snow-covered countryside, Gustave and Zero find a telephone box. Once he gets through, Gustave then relays a special request to...

Part 4 - The Society of the Crossed Keys

The society turns out to be an inter-woven group of numerous hotel concierges. Gustave's message for help, soon finds it's way through concierges M. Ivan, M. Martin, M. Robin, M. Georges, and M. Dino.

In the end, it is M. Ivan who retrieves Gustave and Zero from the countryside. The concierges have also learned through sources, that Serge has sought refuge in a mountain range known as Gabelmeister's Peak. The concierges have been able to obtain train tickets for the two, as well as Gustave's favorite cologne (though in a much smaller bottle, Ivan regrets to say).

With Mr Kovacs now deceased, Dmitri attempts to go over the remnants of his mother's will. It is during this time that the painting "Boy With Apple" returns to his mind...and is the first time he has found it missing from the mansion's study! Clotilde the maid then confirms that the painting was removed by Gustave.

During this time, Agatha decides to retrieve Boy With Apple" using Zero's information, but grows wary when she hears footsteps approaching her room.

The next day, Serge's sister is found beheaded, the missing body part in a laundry basket (most likely the handiwork of Mr Jopling). Also near her, was a telegram envelope, with its contents missing. Henckel and his soldiers investigate, and also are able to retrieve the telegram's information from the offices, which tell Serge's sister to meet him near Gabelmeister's peak.

Gustave and Zero attempt to rendezvous with Serge at an observatory near the summit of Gabelmeister's peak, only for several monks, to direct the two to a monastery high in the hills.

In a confessional in the rear of the monastery, Serge informs Gustave and Zero of the death of his sister, as well as his witness to the creation of a second will Madame D had made (in the event she was murdered). Serge explains that Dmitri and his family destroyed it, but that he was able to obtain a copy of it. However, before he can tell where it is, Serge falls silent.

Gustave and Zero soon find that Serge has been strangled to death, and see Jopling leaving out a side door!

The two give chase down the hills, Jopling on skis, and Gustave and Zero on a sled. The wild ride through the snow ends with Jopling pulling off to the side, while the sled plows into a hill, sending Zero into the snow, and Gustave hanging precariously over the edge.

Jopling attempts to loosen the icy ledge that the concierge hangs from, when Zero pushes the deranged murderer over the edge, to his death. However, their victory is short-lived, as Henckel is seen across the way, demanding the two not move. Gustave and Zero then take Jopling's motorcycle, amid gunfire from Henckel's troops.

Part 5 - The Second Copy of the Second Will

The war finally comes to the residence of The Grand Budapest Hotel, with numerous members of the Military taking over its many rooms. In the absence of Gustave and Zero, concierge duties have now fallen to a man named M. Chuck

Retrieving Agatha, both Gustave and Zero have her enter the hotel under the guise of delivering complimentary pastries from Mendl's, as a cover to retrieve "Boy With Apple" for them. However, as they watch the front door, Dmitri and his sisters pull up to the entrance!

As the family enters the lobby, Dmitri spies Agatha...who quickly turns around and attempts to escape. The two find themselves in an elevator, where Dmitri tears a corner of the paper wrappings...which reveals a portion of the painting to him. Once they arrive on the 6th floor, Dmitri attempts to chase.

Meanwhile, fearing for Agatha's life, Gustave and Zero enter the hotel disguised as Mendl's associates...only to encounter Dmitri! Dmitri attempts to kill Gustave, but the gunfire rouses several other Military men on the floors, and an impromptu shootout breaks loose!

Henckel soon reaches the floor, demanding all parties cease-firing. However, the silence is broken when Agatha's voice is heard calling for help! Zero sees her dangling off the edge of the third floor suite, the painting hanging nearby. Rushing to her aid, he ends up pitching over the edge along with her, before they both fall off the building...and through the roof of the Mendl's pastry wagon they came in!

After "Boy With Apple" is retrieved, the Confidential paperwork Serge hid on the back is found. With Gustave, Dmitri, Zero, Agatha, and a number of the hotel staff and armed forces around them, Henckels opens the second will, and reads from its contents. Gustave is not only vindicated of Madame D.'s murder, but the second will also gives him numerous portions of numerous businesses she own, including ownership of the Grand Budapest Hotel (of which she was the previously-unknown owner!). In a newspaper article, it is also mentioned that her son Dmitri has disappeared without a trace (and who was suspected of the woman's murder now).

As Old Zero continues the story, he notes that Gustave had almost taken on the same aire as the numerous older women he pleasured. As well, with Gustave now having new-found wealth and financial freedom, Zero was then promoted to concierge of the hotel.

A scene is shown briefly of Gustave presiding over Zero and Agatha's wedding (with The Society of the Crossed Keys as witnesses), but Zero tells that both his wife and their first child died shortly afterwards, from a fatal disease.

The story then switches to Gustave, Zero, and Agatha on a train (some time before her death). During this time, Gustave finally answered the question Zero had asked him some time ago, about if he ever was a lobby boy. The wealthy man says yes, but admits that Zero was a much better lobby boy than he ever was.

During the journey, the train stops again in the same barley field as before, and a number of soldiers board checking for papers. While Gustave and Agatha check out, the soldier does not accept Zero's pass. Gustave attempts to use the pass Henckel gave them on their last trip, but the man tears it up, showing that it has no value in their current wartime climate, as the country on the pass has now ceased to exist. Though Gustave threatens the soldier with punishment, the man knocks out Zero with the barrel of his gun, causing the former concierge of the Grand Budapest Hotel, to leap to his feet and assault the man.

As Old Zero comes out of his story, the Author inquires what happened to Gustave after that. Old Zero then tells that the soldiers had him killed, and with his death, everything that he owned, was willed to him.

After the story and their meal, the two men head to the front desk, though the concierge is nowhere to be found. Zero then goes behind the counter, and retrieves the keys to both of their rooms. One of the key's large tags reads: "M Gustave Suite."

As they wait for the elevator to their rooms, The Author asks Zero if he chose not to sell the hotel to maintain a part of Gustave's world. Zero replies he kept the hotel as a tribute to Agatha, and the best years of his life. He believes the world Gustave had was gone before he worked at the hotel. He departs from the Author. The Author states that he would later travel to South America after visiting the hotel, which he describes as "marvelous ruins that he never returned to."

The film closes with a shot of the young woman finishing the Author's book at the cemetery.

